Our IFS Apprenticeship FAQ page is here to answer any queries you may have regarding the programme.
An IFS Apprenticeship is a 2 year, nationally accredited work-based programme.
General
What is an IFS Apprenticeship?
An IFS Apprenticeship is a two year, nationally accredited work-based programme designed to meet employers' needs, tackle the skills shortages in entry level and specialist roles. IFS Apprentices will gain a recognised professional qualification at levels 6 and 8 on the National Framework of Qualifications.
What qualifications can an IFS Apprentice gain?
On successful completion of the IFS Associate Apprenticeship programme, you will receive a Higher Certificate in International Financial Services - Level 6 award. On successful completion of the IFS Specialist Apprenticeship programme, you will receive a Higher Diploma in Financial Services Analytics - Level 8 award
Where is the IFS Apprenticeship offered?
The IFS Apprenticeships are delivered on a blended learning basis which facilitates participation wherever you are located in the country.
Who is involved in the apprenticeship?
The IFS Apprenticeship is a collaboration between NCI, the apprentice, employer, SOLAS and the Apprenticeship Council.
Who issues the IFS Apprenticeship awards?
Apprentices will receive a QQI award on completion of their apprenticeship programme.
Candidates
What are the benefits of an IFS Apprenticeship?
Employment
: You will be employed for at least 30 hours a week for a fixed term of 24 months and gain valuable work experience and a professional qualification along the way.
Earn while you learn
: You will receive a salary from your employer.
A professional qualification
: As part of the IFS Apprenticeships you’ll gain an internationally-recognised certificate or diploma.
Career progression
: On successful completion of the IFS Apprenticeship, you can progress onto the Level 7, 8 or 9 Apprenticeship, further or higher education, or other qualifications, including Foundation degrees, a range of business and finance qualifications. It could also open up opportunities for you to progress to more senior roles within your organisation or the wider sector.
What is the minimum age requirement?
Candidates must be a minimum of 18 years of age before commencing the academic programme.
Who pays for my training?
The academic programme is government funded.
How to become an IFS Apprentice
Candidates register to be accepted onto the apprenticeship programme once they meet minimum requirements for the programmes. The candidates details will be automated into a candidate booklet which will then be released to employers in April.
Clients will reach out to candidates that they wish to offer an interview to. At interview stage the clients will speak to prospects regarding which roles they have available in the company.
Have more questions?
Visit our blog for answers about the IFS Apprenticeships
.
Industry
What is an apprenticeship and what does it mean for my company?
An IFS Apprenticeship is a nationally accredited work-based programme designed to meet employers’ needs. Individuals will gain a recognised professional qualification at levels 6 or 8 on the National Framework of Qualifications. Further to this they will also gain technical knowledge, professional skills as well as wider business competencies.
Candidates are pre-screened and selected from a national panel which reduces recruitment costs and as the training costs are covered by Government funding, the IFS Apprenticeships are an efficient and financially effective process. Companies can also place existing employees on the IFS Apprenticeship programme which will provide industry relevant training at no extra cost to the employer.
How does an employer get approved to train apprentices?
Employers must seek approval to train an apprentice and be registered with SOLAS.
Get In Touch
For further information on the IFS Apprentice programme, please contact Darragh Brien, Apprenticeship Co-ordinator at NCI.
Contact Us