BA (Honours) in Accounting and Finance
Course Instance ID:
476649385
Description:
BA (Honours) in Accounting and Finance
Duration:
3 years
NFQ Level:
Level 8
Brochure:
Download BA (Honours) in Accounting and Finance brochure
NCI’s BA (Honours) in Accounting and Finance features a blend of specialised accounting and finance subjects together with general business subjects, giving you an excellent foundation in leadership and management as well as a critical and methodical approach to problem-solving
and decision-making in a financial context.
CAO Course Code:
NC022
Location
Start Date
IFSC Campus
14/09/2026
Apply Now
Course details
CAO Open Day Events
Join us at one of our CAO Open Day events for Leaving Certificate students where you will be able to chat with our lecturers and talk to students about their course experiences.
Wednesday, May 13th 2026 - Register Here
Saturday, June 27th 2026 - Register Here
About this Course
Graduates of this course understand the theory and practice of accounting and finance, have skills and knowledge in all areas of business, and can pursue a career in general management, accountancy or related fields. Graduates are also eligible for professional accountancy body exemptions.
Students may also be able to take advantage of an opportunity to engage in a year-long, accredited work placement between years two and three. This placement is credit-bearing and comprises an extra year in the degree. Access to such placements is limited and   highly competitive.
Course Content
Year 1
Financial Accounting 1
Economics in the 21
st
Century
Academic Management Skills
Mathematics for Business and Finance
Business Law for Accounting and Finance
Fundamentals of Management
Information and Communications Technology in Accounting and Finance
Quantitative Methods
Introduction to Financial Markets
Marketing for Accounting and Finance
Year 2
Financial Accounting 2
Management Accounting 1
Corporate Finance
Taxation 1
Quantitative Methods in Finance
Company Law for Accounting and Finance
Business Economics
Collective Investments
Corporate Governance and Ethics
Students intending to undertake the Work Placement Year study a Career Development Skills module in Year 2.
Year 3
Management Accounting 2
Financial Reporting
Law and Regulation
Portfolio Analysis
Derivatives and Risk Management
Contemporary Issues in Finance and Accounting
Financial Statement Analysis
Electives
Students select a 5-credit elective module in Semester 1 and 10-credit elective module in Semester 2.
Taxation 2
Taxation 3
International Financial Management
Entrepreneurship
Research Project
Audit and Assurance
Electives may include prerequisites, are subject to change, and availability is subject to class sizes.
For more information on elective modules, as well as work placement details, please download the
BA (Honours) in Accounting and Finance
brochure.
For more information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Course Structure and Award
This undergraduate course is a three-year honours degree (four years with the option of a placement*). The course is run over six semesters with continuous assessment held throughout the course and examinations at the end of each semester. In each year of the degree any student with an overall average of 70+ will win a Dean’s Award. On completion you will receive a QQI BA (Honours) Degree in Accounting and Finance at level 8 on the National Framework of Qualifications.
*Students who complete the Career Management Skills module and meet set grade criteria are eligible (subject to availability) to complete a work placement on year three of the programme and graduate after four years with 240 ECTS credits.
Career Prospects
Recent graduates are employed as trainee accountants and tax advisors within the Big 4 and Top 10 accountancy firms together with industry and financial services. Many are undertaking the professional accountancy exams. Specific employers include EY, Deloitte, BDO, Grant Thornton, JPA Brenson Lawlor, JP Morgan, Enterprise Rent-a-Car, Citi, BNY Mellon, Moore Stephens, Cornmarket, PwC and Daiwa.
Read more about the
career pathways of NCI accounting and finance students
.
Further Study Options
Upon successful completion of the BA (Honours) in Accounting and Finance, graduates can progress to postgraduate courses at level 9 on the National Framework of Qualifications such as the
MSc in Finance
and
MSc in Accounting
at NCI or pursue a professional accountancy qualification such as ACA, CPA, ACCA or CIMA.
Who is the course for?
This course is ideal for students who have an interest in the business world and who are looking to move into the international world of accounting and finance. The course is for school leavers, mature students and graduates of QQI level 5/6 programmes who wish to embark on a course of full-time study.
Professional Recognition
Graduates who meet the criteria decided by the professional accounting bodies may apply for generous exemptions from the examinations of professional accountancy bodies on completion of the course. These include:
Chartered Accountants Ireland (CAI)
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA)
Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA)
Certified Public Accountant (CPA) Ireland
Exemption criteria are subject to change, students and graduates should check with the relevant professional bodies for the up-to-date criteria.
Work Placement
Work placements are highly regarded by graduate recruiters and offer many advantages to students. Advantages include the opportunity to make contact in industry, networking experience, work-based practical skills and experience, assisting in developing personal and professional confidence, and an opportunity to boost your employability prospects when you graduate. On-the-job experience before you graduate will give you the edge in today’s job market.
This programme offers high-achieving students the option to complete an eightmonth paid work placement after successful completion of second year. This option is subject to strict requirements and will be discussed with students on entry to the course.
Minimum Entry Requirements
Minimum entry requirements are a grade H5 and above in two higher level subjects together with a minimum of O6/H7 in four other subjects. A minimum of grade O6/H7 must be obtained in English. A grade O5/H6 must be obtained in Mathematics. Applicants from a PLC/further education course must have a full level 5/6 award, three distinctions and meet the CAO points requirement.
For applicants whose first language is not English, please note the
English language entry requirements
.
For international students, please visit NCI's
Your Country
section to view the specific entry requirements for your region.
Mature applicants
, applicants with a disability or those applying through the
DARE
or
HEAR
access schemes can find out more information on the
application process
.
Please note that exams can be scheduled during the morning, afternoon or evening Monday to Saturday.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
CAO Points
2025 CAO Points Guide :* 330
*For each course we have given a guideline based on our points over the past 3 years. This is a guide only, points vary each year.
The CAO course code is NC022.
QQI Level 5/6 Requirements
Students must obtain a minimum of 3 distinctions and a full award and meet the CAO points requirements to apply for this Level 8 course.
Visit our
QQI Applicants
page for further information.
Sports Scholarship
Did you know you can apply for a
Sports Scholarship
at NCI?
Watch this video
to hear from our current sports scholars Stephen Achukwu (basketball) and Adam Leonard (football):
Free Fees
This course qualifies under the
Free Fees Initiative
and
Student Grant Scheme
.
International Students' Fees
Please note that effective from September 2026, the programme fee for International students is €14,000 per year.
For more information on international fees, please visit
International Fees & Funding
and
International Scholarships
.
Learn more about studying at NCI as an
international student
.
For domestic students applying through the CAO, this course applies under the free fees initiative. For further information, please see
Free Fees Initiative
.
Student Profile