All Courses
At National College of Ireland we offer a variety of full- and part-time courses in business, psychology, education and computing, ranging in level from certificate to degree and postgraduate level.
Choose a Course Type
Part-Time Courses
Want to advance your skills but need to structure your studies around family commitments and work? Browse our practical part-time courses, all designed to fit your lifestyle.
Full-Time Courses
If you have the time to really concentrate completely on your studies, a full-time course at NCI can give you a jump-start or a serious advancement in your career prospects.
Postgraduate Courses
Want to continue your studies in a practical and flexible way? Our postgraduate courses are highly regarded in the workplace by employers all around the world. Browse our prospectus for more.
Undergraduate Courses
At NCI we have a wide range of courses that will help you further your career. We also offer part-time undergraduate courses so you can get an education that suits your lifestyle.
International Students
NCI welcomes students from countries all over the world to study at our state-of-the-art campus in Dublin. This section explains what courses are available for international students.
CAO Courses
NCI has a wide range of undergraduate courses that will help you to realise your potential. Browse through this section for courses you can apply for through the CAO system.
Springboard+
The Springboard+ Initiative allows us to offer courses for free, or at a reduced cost, to fill the skills shortages in industries. This initiative is co-funded by the Irish Government and the European Social Fund.
Apprenticeships
In association with IFS, NCI is running international financial services apprenticeships that combine a a full-time four-day job in a blue-chip financial institution with one day of study a week.
More Courses
Prospectus
Download an online version of our prospectus for detailed course information.
Postgraduate & Part-Time Prospectus
Full-Time CAO Prospectus
Choose a Subject
Accounting & Finance Courses
Looking for a well-regarded programme on finance? Look no further, NCI has a wide range of finance courses to suit your needs.
Business Courses
NCI's business courses can help you gain the cutting-edge knowledge and skills needed to succeed in the competitive business world.
Management Courses
At NCI, our management courses combine a strong theoretical foundation with a firm focus on practical application.
Psychology Courses
Our psychology degrees are accredited by the Psychological Society of Ireland (PSI), the professional body for psychology in the Republic of Ireland
Human Resource Management Courses (HRM)
NCI has a long-established track record in human resource management and our graduates are highly regarded by employers.
Education Courses
Our courses educational practice and technology-enhanced learning are perfect for teaching practitioners.
Computing Courses
NCI's wide range of computing courses provide hands-on practical experience, producing exceptional graduates.
Data Analytics Courses
NCI's data analytics courses are delivered by faculty and industry practitioners with proven expertise in this field.
Cybersecurity Courses
Our range of cybersecurity courses can help you develop world-class skills and detailed knowledge to succeed in this growing sector.
Artificial Intelligence Courses
NCI aims to produce high-quality, technically competent, innovative graduates that will become leading practitioners in the field of artificial intelligence.
All Subjects
Scholarships & Discounts
Explore our range of scholarships and discount offers for exceptional students both from NCI and other colleges.
Find Out More