MBA Course Content
The NCI MBA programme will provide you with a strong theoretical foundation in management as well as the practical application of theory in real world settings and cases.
MBA Programme
The MBA programme emphasises the development of effective business and management skills to solve management problems through structured analysis, problem solving techniques, effective decision-making, strong communication skills and leadership.
MBA students will be exposed to the latest thinking in the core disciplines of management, people and strategy, management of financial resources and economics for management. Our faculty will guide you through this thinking and help you apply it to real world scenarios.
Study what YOU want
You will be able to choose from a wide range of electives in marketing and international business, human resource management, and entrepreneurship and information technology. You will have the opportunity to participate in an exciting management simulation game in your final semester, which takes a real-life business scenario from start to market, utilising the latest technology to allow you to apply all you have learned in a dynamic virtual business environment.
Get a global perspective
In a global business world our programme develops an international perspective with optional field trips available as part of the programme*. This affords you the opportunity to further develop the skills and cultural competencies to compete successfully in the world market.
*The International field trip incurs an additional fee and is subject to student numbers.
Hone your practical & entrepreneurial skills
All programmes at National College of Ireland have a practical focus and an entrepreneurial perspective. The knowledge and skills acquired through our MBA will allow you to progress your own management career as well as to consider creating an enterprise of your own.
Many MBA programmes are not taught in a way that encourages students to think critically. The NCI programme emphasises experimentation, critical thinking, innovation and entrepreneurship. It will equip you for a successful career in the new dynamic world of management and also for enterprise start-up.
Dr Colette Darcy, Dean School of Business NCI
MBA Programme Schedule
Monday and Wednesday 18.00 - 21.00 plus some Saturday workshops.
Please note that exams can be scheduled during the morning, afternoon or evening Monday to Saturday.
Year 1 - Semester 1 - Sept-Dec
Enterprise Management
Economics for Management
Year 1 - Semester 2 - Feb-May
Managing Financial Resources
Strategic Marketing Management
One elective course from list
Year 2 - Semester 1 - Sept-Dec
Strategic Management and Global Environment
Corporate Governance, Business Ethics and CSR
Research Methods
Year 2 - Semester 2 - Jan-July
Effective Leadership in the Organisation
Managing People
One elective course from list
Year 2 - Semester 3 - July-Sept
Your final semester will be largely independent learning. It will consist of our Enterprise Simulation Game for 10 credits and you will complete a 20 credit dissertation.
Elective Course List
Please note that choices are subject to numbers
International Field Trip
*
Services Marketing
Commercial Law
Strategic HRM
International Marketing
International Finance
e-Business Infrastructure
Managing e-Business Implementation
Operations Management
*The International field trip incurs an additional fee and is subject to student numbers. Visa restrictions may apply.
Find out more about
all the modules covered on the course
.
Award
The MBA programme is awarded by QQI at Level 9 on the National Framework of Qualifications (NFQ). This award will allow transfer to Level 9 research degrees and in some cases, progression to taught doctoral programmes at Level 10 on the NFQ.
How to Apply
Student Profile