Accelerated Business Degrees
Part-time undergraduate business degrees condensed into 3 stages across 2 years.
Find a course
Return to Education with a 2 Year Undergraduate Degree
At National College of Ireland, we understand the demands of a busy lifestyle so we have designed our part-time accelerated business courses in a flexible way to ensure that you can work towards your undergraduate degree while keeping up with multiple commitments such as work and family life.
Both of our accelerated degrees in Business Management and HRM Strategy and Practice are condensed into 3 stages across 2 years. This means that you will complete your degree in just 2 short years, half the time of most part-time undergraduate business degrees. Also, the block delivery nature of these programmes will provide the opportunity for more in-depth development of knowledge as learners will be able to focus on one module at a time.
Visit the course pages below to learn how to apply.
Benefits of an Accelerated Degree
Our Accelerated Business Degrees offer a flexible, fast-tracked path to a fully accredited qualification, designed to fit around your life and career goals.
2-year Degree
Block Teaching
Online Classes
QQI Accredited
Business Programme
The BA (Honours) in Business Management is aimed at people working in business and management areas or intending to move into them and who want to graduate with an undergraduate business qualification. You will gain in-depth knowledge of a wide range of management and general business issues and learn to appreciate wider factors impacting business decision-making such as the organisation culture, entrepreneurship and the external economic environment.
BA (Hons) in Business Management
Modules on this programme include:
Entrepreneurship
Marketing
Leadership
Technology for Business
3 Stages | Level 8 | Part-Time | Blended
Apply Online
Human Resource Management Programme
The BA (Honours) in HRM Strategy and Practice is designed to suit the needs of part-time students requiring a professional CIPD recognised qualification and is aimed at people already working in HRM or intending to move into the area. The programme will give you a comprehensive understanding of the key skills needed by human resource professionals.
BA (Hons) in HRM Strategy and Practice
Modules on this programme include:
Employment Law
Learning and Development
Ethics, Equality and Diversity
3 Stages | Level 8 | Part-Time | Blended
Apply Online
Further Information
Explore our additional resources to learn more about the student experience on our accelerated programmes.
Why Study an Accelerated Business Degree
Gráinne's Student Journey
Upcoming Events
Get in Touch
If you would like to learn more about our Accelerated Business Degrees, please contact our Admissions team.
Contact Us