Meet the Faculty of the MBA
All modules on the MBA at NCI are delivered by experienced faculty who have worked extensively as educators and as practitioners.
Meet the Faculty
Learn more about the lecturers you will work with throughout the MBA course.
Victor del Rosal
“My aim is to encourage MBA students to incorporate cutting-edge cloud and AI technologies in their digital transformation and innovation strategies, while considering societal challenges that firms can address.”
Victor del Rosal is a Senior Consultant and Lecturer in Innovation and Emerging Technologies. His passion for teaching students about new technologies that change the way in which we work is infectious, resulting in him being named a co-recipient of the 2019 NCI President's Award for Distinguished Teaching. Victor’s distinguished career in the industry has seen him excel in roles such as Director of Strategy in cloud services provider CloudStrong and Industrial and Systems Engineer in Monterrey Tech. His education includes a Managing Innovative Technology Certificate from the University of Oxford and an MSc in Management from UCD Smurfit Graduate Business School.
Professor Philip McGovern
“Grounded in rigorous research, the Effective Leadership in the Organisation module on the MBA course aims to provide students with inspiration, hands-on tools and knowledge that will enhance their emotional and leadership skills for managerial results.”
Professor Philip McGovern holds a PhD in management and an MBA from the University of Brighton and an MSc in management from Dublin University (Trinity College). He was Director of the MBA course in NCI from 2009 to 2017, and was awarded the President’s Award for Distinguished Teaching in 2018. He has extensive hands-on international experience, gained within fast-growing, rapidly changing environments across a range of different cultures. He has consulted with various private organisations in the engineering, food and technology sectors, focusing on team effectiveness, leadership development and management training. Philip’s teaching philosophy centres on the belief that learning should be experiential and student-centred, and he uses such techniques and materials as case analyses, group discussions and practical exercises, in order to facilitate the collective learning process and actively integrate participants' work experiences, opinions and views.
Joe Wilde
“My approach to teaching on the MBA course is to keep classes as practical as possible whilst grounding them in the latest academic theory. My assessment is built around practical action-based learning and I always endeavour to frame assignments around real-life projects.”
Joe Wilde is an experienced marketer with over 18 years’ industry experience. He has worked across a broad spectrum of organisations implementing digital marketing, communications and brand development campaigns for SMEs, educational institutions and major brands including Diageo, Heineken, Glasnevin Trust and Bank of Ireland. He has also delivered training for AIB, Red Bull, Siemens, Digital Marketing Institute, various Local Enterprise Offices and the Department of Business, Enterprise and Innovation. In addition, he lectures students in digital and traditional marketing courses and is a member of the adjunct teaching staff at both Trinity College Dublin and NCI. Joe’s qualifications include a B.Comm from UCD, a Masters of Marketing Practice in UCD’s Smurfit Business School, and an HDip in Education from the National University of Ireland, Maynooth.
Pauline Kelly
"My lecturing style with MBA participants is very much facilitative and I believe outcomes are a shared responsibility. I provide the framework and academic rigour to enable individual and collective knowledge transfer and development. Assessments focus on live topics of interest in participants’ own organisations."
Pauline Kelly is Programme Director for the BA (Hons) Degree in HRM and lecturer in Human Resource Management (HRM) in the School of Business on the MBA, MAHRM and PGDip programmes. Before joining NCI, she lectured for a number of years in HRM at UCD, where she was also a visiting scholar to Hong Kong and Singapore. She has several years’ industry and management consulting experience, many in the US, in the pharmaceutical and high tech sectors, specialising in human resource strategy and organisation development. Pauline is currently pursuing her PhD in HRM in the area of employee engagement.
Professor Paul Hanley
“Our approach to economics teaching on the MBA course uses a blend of bespoke digital video content and applied real world case studies to bring a unique breadth and depth of understanding to NCI learners.”
Dr Paul Hanly is a lecturer and award-winning researcher in economics in NCI and has almost 20 years of teaching experience across a range of third level institutions. His research, which has been widely published, covers such subjects as productivity cost estimation, microcosting health technologies, economic impact analysis, national accounting valuation, precarious work and applied behavioural economics. He is also actively involved in ongoing interdisciplinary research projects with collaborators in the National Agency for Research on Cancer, the Institute for Health and Society – Newcastle University, University of Madrid, DeGroote School of Business, McMaster University and Maynooth University. In addition, Paul has been a part of successful research teams that have won almost €1 million in competitive funding from Irish and international funding bodies. All this has led to many prestigious international research awards, including a Best New Investigator award from the International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research (ISPOR).
David Hurley
“An MBA is an internationally recognised qualification – a ‘passport’ to greater things both personally and professionally. My teaching approach is all about providing the real-life tools and examples that help students identify and achieve these greater things.”
David Hurley is a marketing and entrepreneurship lecturer at NCI and a recipient of the President’s Award for Distinguished Teaching. He holds a BA in Media Production and Management and an MSc in Advertising from DIT (now TU Dublin). He joined NCI in 2014 as a member of Associate Faculty after an eight-year spell as a senior marketing lecturer at Dublin Business School. David specialises in the practical application of entrepreneurial tools and techniques and infuses his MBA class with a combination of theory and practical application in enterprise-based environments.
Course Content
How to Apply