Higher Diploma in Science in Fintech
Course Instance ID:
894872487
Description:
Higher Diploma in Science in Fintech
Duration:
1 year
NFQ Level:
Level 8
Fintech is an area of rapid growth and significant job opportunity at the intersection of finance and information technology. This programme gives learners the knowledge, skills, and a recognised qualification to avail of these opportunities.
This course has been designed in consultation with industry to provide graduates with relevant skills that qualifies learners for roles such as junior business analyst, junior data analyst, junior financial analyst, quantitative first and second tier support engineer, junior blockchain software developer, assistant digital forensic accountant, assistant financial auditor.
Course details
Award and Progression
Higher Diploma in Fintech as awarded by QQI at level 8 on the National Framework of Qualifications. Graduates can progress onto the
MSc in Fintech
at National College of Ireland.
Entry Requirements
A level 8 degree (2.2 award) or its equivalent in any discipline. Non-standard applications to the programme will be also considered on an individual basis by the programme board.
The college operates a
Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL)
scheme, meaning applicants who do not meet the normal and academic entry requirements, may be considered based on relevant work or other experience. This may be assessed through an interview and assessment.
Non-English speaking applicants must demonstrate fluency in the English language as demonstrated by an IELTS score of at least 6.0 or equivalent. Visit our
English Language Requirement
s page for further information.
Programme Overview
Finance is a highly regulated industry dominated by banks that resist disruption and change. However, information technology innovations and computing resources availability have revolutionised the financial sector in the last decades. Data analytics, new technologies (e.g., blockchain) and business models (e.g., crowdfunding), and the modernisation of the financial sector regulations are creating opportunities to the emergence of disruptive services and challenger institutions.
This course provides learners with the latest knowledge and competencies at the intersection of finance and information technology, qualifying them to enter the rapidly evolving area that is fintech.
NCI is perfectly placed to deliver an industry-focused programme inspired by its location at the heart of the International Financial Services Centre. The course is completely delivered by faculty and industry practitioners with established experience in the fintech domain.
Course Delivery
Blended:
Livestream
with some
Campus Stream
classes scheduled in advance.
See the
Higher Diploma in Science in Fintech course brochure
for an explanation of the learning methods.
Indicative Schedule
Three evenings per week 18.00 - 22.00 and a number of Saturdays 09.00 - 18.00
Please note that in some instances exams may take place in the daytime, evenings and at weekends.
Course Content
Core Modules
e-Finance and Services
Business Data Analysis
Data Governance and Cybersecurity
Financial Data Analysis
e-Contracts and Payments
An Introduction to Digital Forensics and Auditing (Elective)
Contemporary Topics in Fintech Seminar (Elective)
Project
For information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Course Fee
The cost of this course is €4,725.
(Fees revised annually)
You can spread the cost of this course with a
direct debit plan
.
IFS Skillnet Member Discount
This programme is part-funded by IFS Skillnet, applicants can avail of a reduced fee of €3,350 if their organisation is a member company. You can
check if your organisation is a member of the network
or
join as a member company
to avail of this discount.
Please note that membership is only open to private or commercial semi-state companies operating in the area of financial services and companies that provide IT, Accounting, Legal and Business consulting services to the sector. Public sector organisations, charities / not-for-profit organisations, or companies based outside the Republic of Ireland, cannot join IFS Skillnet.
Student Profile