BA (Honours) in Human Resource Management
Course Instance ID:
414881524
Description:
BA (Honours) in Human Resource Management
Duration:
3 years
NFQ Level:
Level 8
Brochure:
Download BA (Honours) in Human Resource Management brochure
NCI’s BA (Honours) in Human Resources Management draws on our 75 years as the leading educational institution for human resource management. This is an excellent business degree with a focus on the human resources function, which includes recruitment, training, employee development and industrial relations.
CAO Course Code:
NC005
Location
Start Date
IFSC Campus
14/09/2026
Apply Now
Course details
About this Course
Graduates of this course have a thorough understanding of human resource management, understand the world of business and how HRM integrates with other areas, and boast personal skills in teamwork, communication and research.
Sudents of this course can also take advantage of an opportunity to engage in a year-long, accredited work placement between years two and three. This placement is credit-bearing and comprises an extra year in the degree. Access to such placements is limited and highly competitive.
CAO Open Day Events
Join us at one of our CAO Open Day events for Leaving Certificate students where you will be able to chat with our lecturers and talk to students about their course experiences.
Wednesday, May 13th 2026 - Register Here
Saturday, June 27th 2026 - Register Here
Who is the course for?
If you want an interesting and varied business career, with an understanding of business strategy and human resource management, this degree will appeal to you.
The course is for school leavers, mature students and graduates of QQI level 5/6 programmes who wish to embark on a course of full-time study.
Course Content
Year 1
This stage of study introduces learners to the core knowledge and skills necessary for human resource management practitioners.
HR in a Corporate Framework
Organisational Behaviour
Academic Management Skills
Business Law
Management Theory and Practice
Resourcing and Talent Planning
Ethics and Corporate Governance
Employee Relations
Year 2
This stage of study introduces learners to broader Human Resource Management modules and some more technical modules, with a focus on practical application and interpretation of theories and concepts.
Finance and Accounting for the HR Professional
Performance and Reward Management
Employment Law 1
Professional Development Skills
HR Analytics and Quantitative Methods
Learning and Development
Employment Law 2
Career Management Skills
Year 3
This stage of study incorporates a more strategic focus in terms of modules and their contribution to the organisation. At this stage, learners may also choose electives based on personal preferences, subject to availability and class size.
Strategic Human Resource Management
Contemporary Issues in Human Resource Management
Sustainability
Change and Organisation Development
Contemporary Issues in Industrial Relations
Additional HRM elective modules
Plus, two electives
Elective Modules
Capstone (Research) Project Preparation
Capstone Project
Health and Safety
International HRM
Economic and Social Policy
HR and Professional Practice
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
Electives may include prerequisites, are subject to change, and availability is subject to class sizes.
For more information on the elective modules, please download the
BA (Honours) in Human Resource Management
brochure.
For information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Course Structure and Award
This undergraduate course is a three-year honours degree (four years with the option of a placement*). The main course is run over six semesters with continuous assessment held throughout the course and examinations at the end of each semester.
In each year of the degree, any student with an overall average of 70+ will win a Dean’s Award. On completion, you will receive a QQI BA (Honours) Degree in HRM at level 8 on the National Framework of Qualifications.
*Students are eligible (subject to availability) to complete a work placement on year three of the programme and graduate after four years with 240 ECTS credits.
Work Placement
Flexible Choices for High-Achieving Students
Work placements are highly regarded by graduate recruiters and offer many advantages to students. Advantages include the opportunity to make contact in industry, networking experience, work-based practical skills and experience, assisting in developing personal and professional confidence, and an opportunity to boost your employability prospects when you graduate.
In years two and three, there are extra choices available for high achieving students (averaging 60% plus).
Between year two and three – a year-long work placement
In your final year - a capstone project in the HRM field
Career Prospects
For 75 years NCI has built an enviable reputation for excellence in HR education. Recent graduates are employed in human resources, recruitment, industrial relations and training roles in organisations including Google, Comfort Keepers, IBEC, Hertz, PwC, IBM, Arvato, Ergo, Ryanair, NTMA and CPL.
Read more about the
career pathways of NCI human resource management students
.
Further Study Options
Upon successful completion of the BA (Honours) Degree in Human Resource Management, graduates who have acquired the appropriate entry requirements can progress to postgraduate courses at level 9 on the National Framework of Qualifications such as the
Postgraduate Diploma
or
MA in HRM
, or the
MSc in Management
, all available at NCI.
Professional Recognition
This course is an excellent foundation towards Membership of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) and/or the Irish Institute of Training and Development (IITD).
Minimum Entry Requirements
Minimum entry requirements are a grade H5 and above in two higher level subjects together with a minimum of O6/H7 in four other subjects. A minimum of grade O6/H7 must be obtained in English. A grade O6/H7 must be obtained in Mathematics.
For applicants whose first language is not English, please note the
English language entry requirements
.
For international students, please visit NCI's
Your Country
section to view the specific entry requirements for your region.
Mature applicants
, applicants with a disability or those applying through the
DARE
or
HEAR
access schemes can find out more information on the
application process
.
Please note that exams can be scheduled during the morning, afternoon or evening Monday to Saturday.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Sports Scholarship
Did you know you can apply for a
Sports Scholarship
at NCI?
Watch this video
to hear from our current sports scholars Stephen Achukwu (basketball) and Adam Leonard (football):
Free Fees
This course qualifies under the
Free Fees Initiative
and
Student Grant Scheme
.
CAO Points
2025 CAO Points Guide :* 300
*For each course we have given a guideline based on our points over the past 3 years. This is a guide only, points vary each year.
The CAO course code is NC005.
QQI Level 5/6 Requirements
Students must obtain a minimum of 3 distinctions and a full award and meet the CAO points requirements to apply for this Level 8 course.
Visit our
QQI Applicants
page for further information.
International Students' Fees
Please note that effective from September 2026, the programme fee for International students is €12,000 per year.
For more information on international fees, please visit
International Fees & Funding
and
International Scholarships
.
Learn more about studying at NCI as an
international student
.
For domestic students applying through the CAO, this course applies under the free fees initiative. For further information, please see
Free Fees Initiative
.
Student Profile