Sports Scholarship
Apply for a Sports Scholarship at NCI
National College of Ireland is committed to the development of sporting excellence and fostering sporting talent within the college.
NCI Sport Scholarship Students.
The scholarship initiative is an investment in student potential, which endeavors to tailor performance based components with financial support so students can maintain a dual focus on academic and sporting progression.
Sports scholarships are reserved for full-time registered students who have reached or have the potential to reach a very high level of performance competing at International, National, Inter-provincial or Inter-county level.
Watch the video below to hear from our current sports scholars Stephen Achukwu (basketball) and Adam Leonard (football):
You can also read Kasia and Ethan's scholarship story on our blog.
Scholarship Package
The sports scholarship package will offer successful students a combination of the following supports to help students realise their potential and achieve their goals:
Financial Bursary of €2,000
Concession of 30 points when applying for a course in NCI.
Annual gym membership including individual training programme
Personal training sessions with leading fitness professional
Nutrition and dietary advice with leading fitness consultant
Sport motivation and peak performance coaching with leading expert
Academic and learning development advice and on-going support
Financial support for sport related expense
Branded athlete pack
How to Apply
You can apply through the application form below.
Sport Scholarship Application form
International Students
Full-time international undergraduate registered students on a 3-year programme who have reached or have the potential to reach a very high level of performance competing at International, National, Inter-provincial or Inter-county level in Ireland can avail of the Sports Scholarship.
The Sports Scholarship can be used in conjunction with another NCI scholarship. The total amount of sporting and academic scholarships a student can receive may be capped in certain cases. Students who receive funding from an external sporting organisation, such as Governing Bodies, can still avail of the NCI Sports scholarship.