Higher Diploma in Financial Services Analytics - Apprenticeship
Course Instance ID:
829192892
Description:
Higher Diploma in Financial Services Analytics - Apprenticeship
Duration:
2 years
NFQ Level:
Level 8
The IFS Specialist Apprenticeship offers a two-year full-time job with a leading financial services company whilst studying to achieve a Higher Diploma in Financial Services Analytics.
The
IFS Apprenticeships
allow you to 'earn while you learn' by combining paid on the job training with academic study which is delivered at National College of Ireland.
How to Apply
To learn more about applying for this programme, please contact Darragh Brien, Apprenticeship Engagement Specialist at NCI:
darragh.brien@ncirl.ie
Course details
Course Description
This programme seeks to provide the appropriate education and training to allow successful graduates be registered with SOLAS as an IFS Specialist. Through a combination of off-the-job and on-the-job learning, apprentices will develop skills in the areas of data mining, data management and data analysis within the context of International Financial Services.
Course Structure
This programme is structured over two calendar years (September to August inclusive). On-the-job modules are structured to run over three semesters each with final deliverable submissions to coincide with the end of Semester 3 and Semester 6. Assessment of off-the-job modules comprises a combination of continuous assessment and terminal exams. On-the-job assessment is via an ongoing electronic portfolio of evidence in year 1 and a final project in year 2.
Who is the course for?
The Higher Diploma in Financial Services Analytics is aimed at graduates of all disciplines. The objective of the IFS Specialist role is to provide an entry point to the International Financial Services sector for people with a Level 8 Honours degree (minimum 2:2 requirement), or alternatively those who have a number of years of significant work experience.
Minimum Entry Requirements
Learners graduating with a 2.2 honours degree at level 8 in any discipline are eligible to apply for this programme. Non-standard applications will be also considered on an individual basis, subject to the completion and approval of a
Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL)
application.
As this is an Apprenticeship programme, participation on the programme is contingent upon the apprentice being offered an Apprenticeship role with an employer participating in the Apprenticeship scheme.
Applicants must be a minimum of 18 years of age before commencing the academic programme.
For applicants whose first language is not English, please note the
English language entry requirements
.
Please note that exams can be scheduled during the morning, afternoon or evening Monday to Saturday.
Course Content
For information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Indicative Schedule
Timetable information for this programme can be found on our
IFS Apprenticeship Timetables
page.
Application Process
Applicants who meet the entry requirements of the course will progress to the next stage where their details will be sent to employers for review. If you are successful in getting an interview, the employer will contact you directly.
You will need the following documents to complete your application:
An up-to-date copy of your CV.
Transcripts from previous courses for proof of education qualifications.
Supplementary form will be requested to be completed.
Spark Hire one-way virtual interview will be requested to be completed.
Please note, this course does not meet the requirements for international student visas. Applicants must ensure they have an appropriate visa to work in Ireland for the duration of the course.
How to Apply
To learn more about applying for this programme, please contact Darragh Brien, Apprenticeship Engagement Specialist at NCI:
darragh.brien@ncirl.ie
Student Profile