Accounting and Finance Courses
Develop advanced analytical, statistical and financial skills through the accounting and finance courses offered at NCI.
Find a course
Studying Accounting and Finance at NCI
National College of Ireland's accounting and finance courses are about much more than just the numbers. They will provide learners with the technical skills they need and the ability to think critically and creatively, to understand how an organisation can succeed.
Through these courses, students will understand the relationships between finance and other business disciplines, develop a critical and methodical approach to problem-solving and decision-making in a financial context and develop the ability to interpret and communicate financial and other information.
Visit the course pages to learn how to apply.
Master's Degrees in Accounting and Finance
The MSc in Finance is offered both full-time and part-time while the MSc in Accounting is offered full-time. Visit the course pages to learn more.
MSc in Finance - Part-Time
The MSc in Finance has been designed in consultation with industry to provide candidates with the advanced analytical, statistical and financial skills for decision-making within the modern and dynamic financial services sector.
2 Years | Level 9 | Part-Time | Blended
See Course Details
MSc in Finance - Full-Time
This course will provide graduates with the techniques and applied knowledge necessary to select, analyse and utilise advanced financial concepts within the setting of investment management and capital markets.
1 Year | Level 9 | Full-Time | Blended
See Course Details
MSc in Accounting - Full-Time
This course aims to provide candidates who are interested in Accounting but whose undergraduate degree is not accounting-related, to pursue a conversion programme which will allow you to gain professional accountancy body exemptions.
1 Year | Level 9 | Full-Time | On-Campus
See Course Details
Useful Resources
Fintech Courses
Upcoming Events
Scholarships
FAQs
Undergraduate Degree in Accounting and Finance
The BA (Honours) in Accounting and Finance features a blend of specialised accounting and finance subjects together with general business subjects and provides learners with the ability to think critically and creatively.
BA (Honours) in Accounting and Finance
The broader business viewpoint of the course will give students an excellent foundation in leadership and management and will offer a broad perspective necessary for the modern interconnected business world.
3 Years | Level 8 | Full-Time | Blended
See Course Details
Get in Touch
If you have any questions about our accounting and finance courses, get in touch with our Admissions Team by emailing admissions@ncirl.ie.
Contact Us