Higher Diploma in Science in Computing (Software Development)
Course Instance ID:
555555555
Description:
Higher Diploma in Science in Computing (Software Development)
Duration:
1 year
NFQ Level:
Level 8
Brochure:
Download Higher Diploma in Science in Computing (Software Development) brochure
The Software Development stream provides learners detailed knowledge, problem-solving and technical skills in the area of software development using a modern programming language, such as Java, and application development framework(s).
The course teaches students the computing fundamentals, complemented with detailed knowledge, problem-solving and specialised technical skills required for designing and developing technical software solutions.
Course Fees:
If your fees are being paid by your company, you will need to complete an
Employer Sponsorship
form and return it to the Fees Office. NCI has a
Direct Debit Plan
that allows students to pay 20% of the fees upfront and the remainder in equal instalments.
Springboard+ is co-funded by the Government of Ireland and the European Union. For more information about EU Funds please visit
www.EUFunds.ie
.
Course details
Springboard+
This course is offered under
Springboard+
meaning you can join this course for free if you are currently unemployed or for a reduced cost of €595 if you are employed.
Visit the Springboard+ website to apply:
Higher Diploma in Science in Computing (Software Development) -
Springboard+ applications for this programme have now closed.
Visit the Springboard+ website for information on
eligibility criteria
.
Who is the course for?
This course will typically appeal to graduates with a level 8 degree from different backgrounds who would wish to change their non-ICT qualification into the computer science field through a level 8 award in computing.
Nonetheless, it is noted that the course is technical in nature and will entail a significant amount of independent study. Given the content and the timescale you will need to have a strong commitment to the course and a willingness to fully engage with the technical content.
About this Course
The Software Development stream provides learners detailed knowledge, problem-solving and technical skills in the area of software development using a modern programming language, such as Java, and application development framework(s).
This course will appeal to non-technical professionals or graduates with a level 8 degree from different backgrounds who would like to upgrade their skills in the computing domain, helping them to progress faster in their employment or to apply the gained knowledge in their current role.
It will help you to enhance your employability skills and improve your overall career prospects. Students will be assisted in identifying relevant employment or a placement during or within three months of completing their course.
Graduates may avail of many entry-level lCT related jobs, such as software developer, web development engineer and software engineer.
Note: The prospective students are required to specify the specialisation they would like to follow when they apply for a place within the Higher Diploma in Science in Computing programme. It is not possible to transfer course streams post registration.
Award and Progression
For all streams regardless of specialisation your final award will be a Higher Diploma in Science in Computing as awarded by QQI at level 8 on the National Framework of Qualifications (NFQ). Students who successfully complete this course may be eligible to progress to a major award at level 9 on the NFQ.
Entry Requirements
A level 8 degree or its equivalent in a non-cognate discipline. Non-standard applications will be also considered on an individual basis.
For applicants whose first language is not English, please note the
English language entry requirements
. Non-English-speaking applicants must demonstrate fluency in English evidenced by an IELTS academic score of at least 6.0 or equivalent.
The college operates a
Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL) scheme
- meaning applicants who do not meet the normal academic entry requirements may be considered based on extensive relevant work and other experience. This may be assessed through a portfolio of learning, demonstration of work produced, interview and assessment.
Career Prospects
This course is designed to meet the needs of the IT sector and secure future employment opportunities for graduates. Companies who hired 2023 students include: Software Engineer (IBM), Product Owner (Accenture), Information Technology Service Desk (SAP), Software Developer (Citi), Software Engineer (Cubic Telecom), Software Systems Engineer III (Crowdstrike), Software Developer (Department of Social Protection).
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Course Content
Semester 1
Software Development
Object Oriented Software Engineering
Introduction to Databases
Web Design and Client Side Scripting
Career Bridge
Semester 2
Computer Architecture Operating Systems and Networks
Data Structures
Algorithms and Advanced Programming
Distributed Systems
Semester 3
Project
Your Careers Advisor will support you in identifying relevant employment during the course or within three months following completion of the course.
Note:
Prospective students are required to specify the specialisation they would like to follow when they apply for a place within the Higher Diploma in Science in Computing programme.
For information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Course Delivery
This is an online learning course that features Directed E-Learning activities such as live online classroom sessions and tutorials/ videos on the College’s e-learning system. This allows for online class time to be interactive, practical, and focused, with theorybased content being covered outside of class time with self-paced tutorials/videos, and practical content being covered in live online classes with support from lecturers.
Indicative Schedule
Tuesday and Thursday 18.00 - 22.00.
There will also be on average five hours self-paced learning per week on NCI’s Learning Platform weekly. This will not appear on your timetable
Career Bridge classes will be delivered one day per week in Semester one from 17.00 to 18.00. Day to be confirmed.
Please note that in some instances exams may take place in the daytime, evenings and at weekends.
Assessment
The course will be assessed with a blend of continuous assessment and/or project work and exams. Please note that in some instances the exams may take place in the daytime, evenings and at weekends.
Duration
3 semesters delivered over 1 calendar year
Course Fee
Springboard+ Student Fees
A student contribution fee of €595 is applicable if you are in employment. No fees applicable if you are unemployed. The scheme does not cover any allowance for books and materials. See the Springboard+ tab above for further information.
If a student contribution fee is applicable this must be paid in full no later than 14th November 2025.
Non-Springboard+ Student Fees
€4,900
(Fees revised annually)
You can spread the cost of this course with a
direct debit plan
or complete an
Employer Sponsorship
form if your fees are being paid by your company.
International Students
International students can apply for the full-time Higher Diploma in Science in Computing
here
.
Student Profile