Certificate in Curriculum and Pedagogical Practice for Early Childhood Home Visiting
Course Instance ID:
913534002
Description:
Certificate in Curriculum and Pedagogical Practice for Early Childhood Home Visiting
Duration:
12 weeks
NFQ Level:
Level 6
Brochure:
Download Certificate in Curriculum and Pedagogical Practice for Early Childhood Home Visiting brochure
Over the course of this part-time, blended learning programme, you will develop knowledge, skills and values, through the study of key topics incorporated throughout the programme.
These include pedagogies and curricula, creativity and play, music, movement, art and drama, children’s holistic learning and development, supporting transitions, well-being and parent/family involvement, and Irish early childhood frameworks.
The programme is awarded by QQI at Level 6 on the National Framework of Qualifications.
Course details
About this Course
The certificate is structured around three core competences of professional practice: knowledge, practices and values. Over the course of this 12-week learning programme you will experience strategies to support virtual parent-child engagement; trauma informed practice, and parents to support their children’s holistic learning and development.
The certificate introduces a range of curriculum and pedagogical practices appropriate to achieving a high-quality hybrid home visiting model that integrates remote, online, doorstep, couch/floor delivery (indoor, outdoor, and remote pedagogies).
This certificate will lead to a special purpose award at Level 6 (20 ECTS credits).
Who is the course for?
This course is ideally suited to Home Visitors whom already have some experience of supporting children’s holistic learning and development in partnership with families as part of early childhood home visiting and wish to deepen and extend their curriculum and pedagogical practices.
The course is also suited to those interested in pursuing a home visitor role, including former programme parents, school leavers and mature students returning to education whom wish to develop their early childhood education and care knowledge, practice and values.
Course Content
Course Modules
Music, Movement, Art and Drama for Home Visiting (10 ECT Credits)
Core Pedagogies and Curriculum for Home Visiting (10 ECT Credits)
For further information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Course Delivery
Blended - Livestream with some directed e-learning activities.
Award and Progression
The Certificate in Early Childhood Education and Care will lead to a special purpose award at Level 6 (20 ECTS credits) on the National Framework of Qualifications.
Learners who successfully complete this course may opt to progress to the
Bachelor of Arts (Honours) Early Childhood Education and Care
.
Entry Requirements
Candidates will be Early Childhood Educators working in the Early Childhood Education and Care sector Candidates will typically have a Certificate (major award) at level 5 or equivalent in any discipline.
For applicants whose first language is not English, please note the
English language entry requirements
.
The college operates a
Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL)
scheme meaning that applicants who do not meet the normal academic requirements will be considered based on relevant work and other experience.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Garda Vetting
Garda Vetting is part of the admissions process. Garda Vetting applications must be submitted to NCI prior to commencing the programme.
The completed
Vetting Invitation Form (NVB1)
and supporting documentation must be submitted as soon as an application is completed. Download our
Guidelines on the Garda Vetting Process
for further information.
Programme offers will remain conditional until part 1 of the Garda Vetting process is completed.
Indicative Schedule
These courses consist of 12 sessions with a blend of virtual classroom sessions and directed online activities. Classes take place on Monday from 18:00-21:00.
Duration
12 weeks.
Course Fee
€1,350
(Fees revised annually)
You can spread the cost of this course with a
direct debit plan
.
Testimonials
"I found this course hugely beneficial towards my role as a home visitor. It has given me a solid foundation of early childhood education and care and the necessary knowledge, skills and competences to provide a high-quality model of home visiting, both online and at home. It has instilled a solid code of good practice and expanded on ways in which to build relationships with children and their parents. The course content is interesting and engaging and is delivered to an extremely high standard, and the learner is fully supported and guided through each facet of learning."
Lynda Cunningham
Home visitor for ParentChild+ programme, facilitated by Blue Skies Initiative.
"I am really proud to be a student of National College of Ireland and choosing Core Pedagogies and Curriculum course was definitely the right decision for my further education and use in practice as a Home visitor. This course pushed my limits and helped me to find confidence in many areas such as presentation skills. I got a deeper understanding and knowledge, not just theory but practical use too."
Katarina Gazova
Home visitor Community Mothers Longford
"I liked this course very much. Through the directed activities, I gained theoretical knowledge about children's growth, the influence of parents and home visitors, regarding children’s development."
Qi wang Dana
ELI PC+ Home Visitor
Student Profile