MSc in Cloud Computing
Course Instance ID:
479347319
Description:
MSc in Cloud Computing
Duration:
1 year
NFQ Level:
Level 9
Brochure:
Download MSc in Cloud Computing brochure
This programme aims to fulfil the ICT sector-specific needs as reported in Ireland's National Skills Strategy 2025. By combining technical skills with innovation principles, it effectively delivers core technology skills in cloud software development, fog/edge computing, DevOps, security, and data governance.
Students will gain experience with the latest ethical design principles, models, and technologies via our state-of-the-art Cloud Competency Centre. The course is delivered by faculty and industry practitioners with proven expertise in cloud computing.
Location
Start Date
IFSC Campus
14/09/2026
Apply Now
Course details
Who is the course for?
This programme will appeal to computer science graduates, ICT industry practitioners, system administrators, and those with an interest in gaining practical experience in cloud computing.
As a graduate of this programme, you will be able to:
Conduct independent research and analysis in the field of cloud computing.
Formulate and implement a novel research idea using the latest industry practices.
Demonstrate expert knowledge of application development, systems programming, parallel and distributed computing, and the tools, techniques and technologies of cloud computing utilised in both technical and business contexts.
Critically assess, evaluate, and communicate business and technical strategies for cloud computing.
Develop and implement effective business and technical solutions for cloud computing.
Critically assess and evaluate security, privacy, and ethical issues associated with the storage, transfer, and processing of data on private and public cloud infrastructures.
Course Content
Core Modules
Cloud Architectures
Cloud Platform Programming
GreenOps and Sustainability
AI in the Cloud
Scalable Cloud Programming
Business Strategies in the Cloud
Quantum Computing
Data Sovereignty & Open Innovation
Research Elective
Research Practicum
or
Internship
Assessment
The course will be assessed with a combination of continuous assessments, projects, and exams. Please note that in some instances exams may take place in the daytime, evening, and/or at weekends.
Note: This course is currently being revalidated and content may change slightly before September 2026. Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of the information at time of going to print.
For information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Award and Progression
The Master of Science in Cloud Computing is awarded by QQI at level 9 on the National Framework of Qualifications. Students who successfully complete this course may progress to a major award at level 10 on the NFQ. Students may also elect to exit early with the Postgraduate Diploma in Science in Cloud Computing at level 9 on the NFQ.
Entry Requirements
An honours (level 8) primary degree in a computing discipline with a 2.2 award or higher. Students in their final year of undergraduate study can be admitted on the condition that their degrees are awarded before they enrol at NCI.
The College operates a
Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL)
scheme meaning applicants who do not meet the normal academic requirements may be considered based on relevant work and other experience. This may be assessed using a portfolio of learning, demonstration of work produced, and an interview.
Non-English-speaking applicants must demonstrate fluency in English evidenced by an IELTS academic score of at least 6.0 or equivalent. Visit our
English Language Requirements
page for further information.
For international students, please visit NCI's
Your Country
section to view the specific entry requirements for your region.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Indicative Schedule
Students need to be available 09.00 - 18.00 Mon – Fri (class days and times vary).
Please note that in some instances exams may take place in the daytime, evening, and/or at weekends.
Course Delivery
Campus – Classes will take place face-to-face on-campus.
Duration
This course runs over 1 year; 3 semesters with a research practicum or internship.
Course Fee
€7,000 total fee
(EU/Ireland applicants, fees revised annually)
You can spread the cost of this course with a
direct debit plan
.
NCI Scholarships
We offer a range of scholarships and discounts for both NCI and non-NCI graduates. Current NCI students and alumni can avail of a 25% discount on this course by applying for our Master's Edge Scholarship.
View our full list of
scholarships
.
International Students' Fees
The course fee for international students is €17,000.
Fees will be revised annually.
For more information on international fees, please visit
International Fees & Funding
and
International Scholarships
.
Learn more about studying at NCI as an
international student
.
Student Profile
'It's well-known that there is a shortage of skills in this area and the MSc in Cloud Computing is a great opportunity to get yourself a job.'
We have access to the facilities in the Cloud Competency Centre and we work with the latest technologies in cloud computing which are taught to us by experienced lecturers who have worked in the field for many years. Its well-known that there is a shortage of skills in this area and the MSc in Cloud Computing is a great opportunity to get yourself a job.
Marc Reilly