MA in Educational Practice
Course Instance ID:
888612173
Description:
MA in Educational Practice
Duration:
2 years
NFQ Level:
Level 9
Brochure:
Download MA in Educational Practice brochure
A key aim of the programme is to provide learners with a comprehensive knowledge of relevant educational scholarship in the area of teaching and learning, to support critical engagement with and the application of theoretical knowledge to practical learning contexts, to become competent and reflective educational practitioners, and to support engagement with current relevant research and the ability to ethically and appropriately carry out independent research.
In addition to academic modules, learners also complete a work-based placement/practicum designed to build relevant sectoral and professional knowledge and enhance professional practice as educators.
How to Apply:
Applicants should contact our Admissions Team directly to apply for this programme starting in September 2025 by emailing
admissions@ncirl.ie
or calling
1800 221 721
.
For the 2025-26 academic year, the programme will be running for a Year 2 cohort only.
Course details
About this Course
The course is designed to develop understanding of theories and behaviours associated with learning and development, while also enhancing research and practical skills. The course focuses on developing self-awareness as well as the competence to facilitate the development of individuals in a range of contexts by, for example, the application of new technologies to instruction, the use of strategies to support learning, and the creation of valuable and effective assessments.
Throughout this course, learners will be encouraged to enquire, question and critique modern conceptions of how we learn and how we can bring about change in others. The course will include guest lecturers and a variety of participative instructional approaches. Learners will be expected to complete practical assignments and to build their skills as a learning professional.
In the second year of the programme, learners are expected to complete a research-based dissertation.
Who is the course for?
The Master of Arts in Educational Practice is for learning professionals who wish to develop their knowledge, skills and competence in the development of others. It proves particularly useful if you are: facilitating learning at higher or further education levels; a learning professional in corporate education and training settings; involved in adult and community education or if you are interested in your own lifelong learning.
Course Content
Please note for Academic Year 2025/26, we are running Year 2 only.
Year 2
Contextual Studies
Research Methods, Qualitative and Quantitative Methods
Dissertation
For information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Please view the
Practicum Booklet
for further information on workplace placement for this course.
Award and Progression
The Master of Arts in Educational Practice is awarded by QQI at level 9 on the National Framework of Qualifications. This award will allow transfer to level 9 research degrees and in some cases progression to doctoral study at level 10 on the NFQ.
Advanced Entry into Year 2
Please note for Academic Year 2025/26, we are running Year 2 only.
Educators with relevant qualifications and experience can be assessed for direct entry into Year 2. Please note each application will be assessed on a case-by-case basis. Applicants may be called for interview by the Programme Director or a member of the programme team.
For further queries about the course, please contact Programme Director Ita Kennelly at
ita.kennelly@ncirl.ie
.
Advanced entry applicants should email admissions directly for the application at
admissions@ncirl.ie
or call
1800 221 721
.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Indicative Schedule
Please note for Academic Year 2025/26, we are running Year 2 only.
Year 2
Combination of Tuesday and Thursday evenings (18:30-21:00) and Saturdays (09:30-1:30)
May - Sept: The dissertation is submitted in semester 3.
Please note that in some instances exams may take place in the daytime, evening, and/or at weekends.
Course Delivery
Blended - Livestream with some on-campus stream classes, scheduled in advance.
See the
MA in Educational Practice course brochure
for an explanation of the learning methods.
Duration
Year 2 will run during the academic year 2025/26.
Course Fee
Year 1: €5,200
Year 2: €3,500
Total fee: €8,700
(Fees revised annually)
You can spread the cost of this course with a
direct debit plan
.
Scholarships and Discounts
We offer a range of
scholarship opportunities and discount offers
available to both NCI and non-NCI graduates that will help you access this course.
Student Profile