Certificate in The Science of Decision Making
Course Instance ID:
910634327
Description:
Certificate in The Science of Decision Making
Duration:
6 weeks
NFQ Level:
Level 9
This programme introduces the student to the science of decision making and is designed to help students become more effective decision makers. The programme draws on the latest research in the field of decision making and draws on work in areas such as psychology, economics, marketing, and HR. Students will learn to understand and use their two modes of thought, ‘system 1’ which allows us to make fast intuitive decisions and ‘system 2’ which is slower and more analytical.
This course is subject to QQI validation.
Location
Start Date
IFSC Blended Learning
23/03/2026
Apply Now
Course details
Course Content
The psychology of a decision
Modes of decision making under risk
Heuristics and cognitive biases
Group decision making
How to improve decision making
For more information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Award
These certificates are awarded by QQI at level 9 (5 ECTS) on the National Framework of Qualifications.
Entry Requirements
Applicants are required to hold a minimum of a 2.2 honours degree in either a cognate or non-cognate area at level 8 on the National Framework of Qualifications.
The college operates a
Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL)
scheme meaning non-graduates with extensive professional experience and other prior qualifications may also be considered for the course.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Course Delivery
Blended delivery: online delivery with one in-person half day introductory session.
Please note that exams can be scheduled during the morning, afternoon or evening Monday to Saturday.
Duration
30 hours contact time: 6 hours per week over 5 weeks.
Course Fee
€950
(Fees revised annually)
Student Profile