Management Courses
At NCI, our Management courses are delivered in a way that ensures students develop the expert skills and knowledge required for higher management positions.
Find a course
Studying Management at NCI
NCI's management courses provide learners with the knowledge and skills required for all areas of business management, combining strong theoretical foundation with a firm focus on practical application.
Our courses have been designed so that students are continuously learning and developing skills throughout the duration of their studies, which can be applied in real day-to-day management situations and serve graduates to aim at higher management positions within the organisation.
Visit the course pages to learn how to apply.
Postgraduate Programmes in Management
Gain in-depth knowledge of a wide range of management and general business issues, theory, practice, and development through the postgraduate management courses offered at NCI.
MSc in Management - Part-Time
Development of effective managerial skills, which include analytical problem solving, decision-making, effective communication and leadership, is encouraged throughout the MSc in Management.
2 Years | Level 9 | Part-Time | Blended
See Course Details
MSc in Management - Full-Time
Students on this programme will be exposed to the most current schools of thought in disciplines such as international business, finance, marketing, entrepreneurship and strategy
1 Year | Level 9 | Full-Time | Blended
See Course Details
How to Apply
Upcoming Events
FAQs
Contact Us
Undergraduate Programmes in Management
Whether you're returning to education to study part-time or continuing your studies from second-level, you can choose the undergraduate degree in management that suits your needs at NCI.
BA (Honours) in Business Management
Condensed into 3 stages over 2 years, this programme will give students the knowledge and skills required for all areas of business management. Learners will cover all the latest thinking and how it contributes to organisational success.
3 Stages over 2 years | Level 8 | Part-Time | Blended
See Course Details
BA (Honours) in Business
As a graduate of this course, you will gain  a fantastic foundation in all aspects of the modern business world and benefit from a range of employment opportunities in areas such as management, marketing, industrial relations, economics and international trade.
3 Years | Level 8 | Full-Time | NC009
See Course Details
Get in Touch
If you have any questions about our management courses, get in touch with our Admissions Team by emailing admissions@ncirl.ie.
Contact Us