(CIPD) Diploma in Professional Human Resource Practice
Course Instance ID:
922149663
Description:
(CIPD) Diploma in Professional Human Resource Practice
Duration:
1 Year
NFQ Level:
Level 7
Brochure:
Download (CIPD) Diploma in Professional Human Resource Practice brochure
NCI is the country’s largest provider of CIPD graduates in Human Resources.
This course takes place over one academic year and is delivered by lecturers with extensive, practical experience in human resources, people and culture. The diploma covers Applied Employment Law, Reward and Performance, Employment Relations, Talent Acquisition plus Organisational Performance & Culture. The programme has been completely revised, placed on the National Framework of Qualifications at level 7 and is in line with the CIPD Profession Map allowing automatic eligibility for Membership of CIPD at Associate Level.
Location
Start Date
IFSC Campus
28/02/2026
Apply Now
Course details
About this Course
An innovative assessment structure is in place on the course which promotes both the understanding of academic principles and the application of skill. Some innovative assessment methods make the course very realistic, such as the investigation into suspected employee theft or the conducting of a selection interview. Assessment is by means of skills assessments, written projects and team presentations.
In addition, upon successful completion of the diploma, there is an exemption from the first stage of NCI’s part-time BA (Honours) in Human Resource Management Strategy and Practice, meaning you have a direct progression path to the later stages of our HR degree.
Who is the course for?
This part-time HR course is ideal for those working in HR, wishing to develop a HR career or managers wanting a better knowledge of people management. The wide range of participants will be a vital part of your learning experience. The course is ideal for those who want to gain Professional Membership of CIPD. CIPD qualifications and membership are often required by employers seeking to hire HR professionals.
Award
Graduates will receive a Level 7 QQI Diploma in Professional Human Resource Practice. The course leads to CIPD qualification and Associate Membership of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD). A separate membership fee (currently stg£140, but subject to revision) should be paid directly to CIPD to gain student membership.
Entry Requirements
This course is designed to appeal to those working in human resources, managing large teams of people or seeking to make a career change into HR. There are no specific academic requirements with applicants considered based on relevant work and other experience.
Please note that due to QQI regulations, students who wish to register for this course must have an address in Ireland.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Course Content
Applied Employment Law
Reward and Performance
Talent Acquisition
Organisational Performance and Culture
Employment Relations
Professional Behaviours and Practice
For more information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Indicative Schedule
Blended Schedule:
2 evenings a week, 18.30-22.00 plus occasional Saturdays. 3 on-campus Saturdays during the course 09.30-17.30.
Please note that exams can be scheduled during the morning, afternoon or evening Monday to Saturday.
Course Delivery
Blended (live online with some face-to-face classes). Evening weekdays online and some Saturdays on campus.
Duration
1 academic year.
Course Fee
€3,750 total fee.
(Fees revised annually)
You can spread the cost of this course with a
direct debit plan
.
Student Profile