MSc in Finance
Course Instance ID:
479324582
Description:
MSc in Finance
Duration:
1 year
NFQ Level:
Level 9
Brochure:
Download MSc in Finance brochure
The MSc in Finance has been designed in consultation with industry to provide candidates with the advanced analytical, statistical and financial skills for decision-making within the modern and dynamic financial services sector.
Graduates will be accomplished in the application of advanced quantitative tools and financial models and techniques within a range of business and financial settings. In particular, the course will provide graduates with the techniques and applied knowledge necessary to select, analyse and utilise advanced financial concepts within the setting of investment management and capital markets.
Location
Start Date
IFSC Campus
14/09/2026
Apply Now
Course details
About this Course
The learning environment for the course is practical and applied in nature and on completion graduates will be able to think independently, make informed and effective decisions and proactively troubleshoot financial and technical business problems.
Graduates from the MSc in Finance will be able to apply advanced research skills and critically evaluate seminal, as well as contemporary literature, paradigms and concepts which underpin the operation of international capital markets and the investment management process.
Who is the course for?
The course is for those wishing to embark on a career in the financial services sector or individuals in all areas of finance who wish to progress their career.
Course Content
Financial Statement Analysis
Quantitative Methods in Finance
Asset Valuation
Capstone Seminar Series
Corporate Finance
Fundamentals of Financial Econometrics
Applied Security Analysis
Derivatives and Risk Management
Portfolio Management
AND
Ethics and Governance
Financial Regulation
Financial and Quantitative Modelling
OR
Dissertation
Note:
All modules count towards the final award classification.
For more information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Award and Progression
The Master of Science in Finance is awarded by QQI at level 9 on the National Framework of Qualifications. This award will allow transfer to level 9 research degrees and in some cases progression to taught doctoral courses at level 10 on the NFQ.
Entry Requirements
Applicants will normally hold a level 8 honours degree (min 2.2) in finance or a cognate field of study.
For applicants whose first language is not English, please note the
English language entry requirements
.
For international students, please visit NCI's
Your Country
section to view the specific entry requirements for your region.
The college operates a
Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL)
scheme meaning applicants who do not meet the normal academic requirements may be considered based on relevant work and other experience. This may be assessed using a written application and/or interview.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Course Delivery
On-campus face-to-face classes
Indicative Schedule
Students need to be available 09.00 - 17.00 Mon – Fri. Full-time students may also be required to attend classes after 17.00 (class days and times vary).
Please note that exams can be scheduled during the morning, afternoon or evening Monday to Saturday.
Duration
September Starts
1 year taught - 2 semesters (Sep-Dec and Jan-May) 3 additional modules (June-Aug) or a final Dissertation (due in August)
January Starts
1.5 years taught: 2 semesters (Jan-May and Sep-Dec), with a break during the summer (June-Aug). 3 additional modules (Jan-May) or a dissertation (due in May) and graduation in November.
International Students' Fees
The course fee for international students is €17,000.
Fees will be revised annually.
For more information on international fees, please visit
International Fees & Funding
and
International Scholarships
.
Learn more about studying at NCI as an
international student
.
Course Fee
€9,600 total fee
(EU/Ireland applicants, fees revised annually)
You can spread the cost of this course with a
direct debit plan
.
NCI Scholarships
We offer a range of scholarships and discounts for both NCI and non-NCI graduates. Current NCI students and alumni can avail of a 25% discount on this course by applying for our Master's Edge Scholarship.
View our full list of
scholarships
.
Student Profile