Business Courses
At National College of Ireland, we offer a wide range of business courses in areas such as HRM, Marketing, Finance, Management and Entrepreneurship across both undergraduate and postgraduate levels.
Studying Business at National College of Ireland
The School of Business and Social Sciences at National College of Ireland prides itself on providing leading-edge business knowledge and developing our students' skills to enhance their career prospects while benefiting from our surroundings in the IFSC.
Our business courses are designed in such a way as to complement and advance the skill set of our students, to allow them to begin to shape their professional career trajectories in a meaningful way. We have a number of business courses available from certificate to master's level in the areas of HRM, marketing, management and more.
Explore the range of business courses available at NCI below.
Business Subject Areas
Human Resource Management Courses
Become a certified HRM expert with NCI, an institution which has a deep history of educating students in this field.
Marketing Courses
Our courses will provide learners with the practical skills to enable them to become effective marketing professionals for the 21st century.
Accounting and Finance Courses
Develop advanced analytical, statistical and financial skills through the accounting and finance courses offered at NCI.
Management Courses
Our courses are delivered in a way that ensures students develop the expert skills and knowledge required for higher management positions.
Entrepreneurship Courses
Innovative courses in entrepreneurship delivered by the expert academic team at National College of Ireland.
Other Business Courses
Learn more about the other courses offered at the School of Business, including Psychology and International Business.
All Business Courses
Business Course Types
Undergraduate Business Courses
Learn about our undergraduate degrees in business, HRM, accounting and finance; our part-time CIPD-accredited courses, or our two-year part-time honours degrees.
Certificates in Business
These short-term, part-time courses are ideal for professionals looking to further develop their skillset in particular area of business, including management, business analysis and business intelligence.
Postgraduate Business Courses
Take your career to the next level by gaining a postgraduate qualification in a specialised business area from National College of Ireland.
All Business Courses
School of Business and Social Sciences
Learn more about NCI's School of Business and Social Sciences including faculty members and recent research conducted.
View Here