MSc in Marketing
Course Instance ID:
914533788
Description:
MSc in Marketing
Duration:
1 year
NFQ Level:
Level 9
Brochure:
Download MSc in Marketing brochure
The MSc in Marketing has been specifically designed with the needs of current and future marketing professionals and managers in mind. The course will equip you with a comprehensive understanding of key foundations of the marketing discipline as well as providing you with a detailed understanding of the contemporary marketplace. You will learn how to apply the latest marketing theory and practice in a dynamic business environment, within increasingly complex digital, ethical and sustainability parameters.
Location
Start Date
IFSC Campus
14/09/2026
Apply Now
Course details
About this Course
The programme comprises a carefully selected range of both contemporary and fundamental marketing topics such as: integrated marketing communications, brand management, digital marketing practice and sustainability and thus caters for multinational organisations, indigenous SME initiatives and the not-for-profit sector, among others.
The programme offers students real insight and experience into how to plan and execute marketing campaigns and strategies through the use of case studies and projects, where possible in conjunction with industry, enabling our graduates to enter management roles, hitting the ground running.
Who is the course for?
The course is aimed at those seeking to advance their studies and/or professional career in marketing and its related fields.
Course Content
Full-time students will complete four core modules in Semester 1, followed by 5 core modules in Semester 2.
Students are also required to complete a ten-credit research methods module which runs across Semester 1 and 2.
Core Modules
Marketing in the 21st Century
The Contemporary Consumer
Integrated Marketing Communications
Sustainability, Strategy and Society
Brand Management
Digital Marketing Practice
Innovation, Creativity and Entrepreneurship
Marketing Metrics and Accountability
Critical Marketing Studies
Research Methods
Dissertation
Note that all modules count towards the final award classification.
For information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Entry Requirements
Applicants are required to hold a minimum of a level 8 qualification in a cognate discipline (i.e. a business-related honours degree) or equivalent on the National Framework of Qualifications.
For applicants whose first language is not English, please note the
English language entry requirements
.
For international students, please visit NCI's
Your Country
section to view the specific entry requirements for your region.
The college operates a
Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL)
scheme meaning non-graduates with extensive professional experience and/or other prior qualifications may be considered for the course.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Award and Progression
The MSc in Marketing course is awarded by QQI at level 9 on the National Framework of Qualifications. This award will allow transfer to level 9 research degrees and in some cases progression to taught doctoral courses at level 10 on the NFQ.
Course Delivery
On-campus face-to-face classes.
Indicative Schedule
Students need to be available 09.00-17.00 Monday - Friday. Full-time students may also be required to attend classes after 17.00 (class days and times vary).
Please note that exams can be scheduled during the morning, afternoon or evening Monday to Saturday.
Duration
September Starts
1 year taught plus a final dissertation: 2 semesters (Sep-Dec and Jan-May) Dissertation due in August.
Course Fee
€8,500 total fee
(EU/Ireland applicants, fees revised annually)
You can spread the cost of this course with a
direct debit plan
.
NCI Scholarships
We offer a range of scholarships and discounts for both NCI and non-NCI graduates. Current NCI students and alumni can avail of a 25% discount on this course by applying for our Master's Edge Scholarship.
View our full list of
scholarships
.
International Students' Fees
The course fee for international students is €17,000.
Fees will be revised annually.
For more information on international fees, please visit
International Fees & Funding
and
International Scholarships
.
Learn more about studying at NCI as an
international student
.
Student Profile
'One of the things I really love about NCI is the atmosphere, and just the friendliness of staff. Everyone is just so nice.'
One of the things I really love about NCI is the atmosphere, and just the friendliness of staff. Everyone is just so nice. I think that’s really important for students that you’re not just a number. That just makes it a better college experience for everyone.
On the MSc in Marketing the lecturers are really knowledgeable. The projects that we do are based on real companies and real issues in industry.
Isabel Hughes