BA (Honours) in Psychology
Course Instance ID:
479893394
Description:
BA (Honours) in Psychology
Duration:
3 years
NFQ Level:
Level 8
Brochure:
Download BA (Honours) in Psychology brochure
NCI’s BA (Honours) in Psychology is accredited by the
Psychological Society of Ireland (PSI)
, the professional body for psychology in the Republic of Ireland. Honours graduates are eligible to apply for Graduate Membership of the PSI.
This degree offers a solid grounding in all the core areas of psychology including cognitive psychology, personality and individual differences, lifespan development, social psychology, research methods and biological psychology, as well as specialised topics such as workplace psychology and cyber-psychology.
CAO Course Code:
NC010
Location
Start Date
IFSC Campus
14/09/2026
Apply Now
Course details
About this Course
Graduates of this course understand the principles of psychology and have a broad understanding of human behaviour, know how to critically analyse problems and how to conduct scientific research.
CAO Open Day Events
Join us at one of our CAO Open Day events for Leaving Certificate students where you will be able to chat with our lecturers and talk to students about their course experiences.
Wednesday, May 13th 2026 - Register Here
Saturday, June 27th 2026 - Register Here
Course Content
Year 1
Introduction to Psychology
Core Research Skills for Psychologists
Social Psychology
Introduction to Developmental Psychology
Introduction to Statistics
Cognitive Psychology
Learning and Behaviour
Coaching Psychology
Year 2
Applied Statistics
Personality and Intelligence
Biological Psychology
Psychopathology
Advanced Cognitive Psychology and Neuroscience
Applied Research Methods
Plus, two electives
Year 2 Elective Modules Include:
Behavioural Science: Problem Based Learning
Psychology of Gender
Critical Thinking
Multicultural Psychology
Year 3
Health Psychology
Advanced Biological Psychology
Behavioural Psychology
Applied Developmental Psychology
Final Project
Plus, four electives
Year 3 Elective Modules Include:
Positive Psychology
Criminal Psychology
Child and Adolescent Mental Health
Psychology of Ageing
Cyberpsychology
Psychotraumatology
Workplace Psychology
Educational Psychology
Students will also be able to select from a range of non-psychology elective subjects including: PR and Social Media, Social and Organisational Behaviour, Project Management, Equality, Diversity and Inclusion, Sales Management, Data Analytics.
All electives are subject to minimum numbers and resource constraints.
For information on electives, please download the
BA (Honours) in Psychology
brochure.
For information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Course Structure and Award
This undergraduate course is a three-year honours degree run over six semesters with continuous assessment held throughout the course and examinations at the end of each semester. Students complete research projects in their final year of study. These research projects are considered for submission to the Psychology Society of Ireland Annual Student Congress.
An NCI psychology student won the ‘Best Research Project’ in 2020, received an Honourable Mention for an Undergraduate, most recently an NCI student won the Outstanding Undergraduate Presentation Award at the 2025 Student Congress.
In each year of the degree any student with an overall average of 70+ will win a Dean’s Award.
On completion you will receive a QQI BA Honours Degree in Psychology at level 8 on the National Frameworkof Qualifications.
Career Prospects
A degree in psychology provides graduates with specific knowledge related to psychology, and broader transferable skills such as critical evaluation and research skills. For graduates who wish to go on to pursue a professional career in psychology, having a PSI accredited degree is necessary for most professional postgraduate courses, such as clinical psychology, educational psychology, behavioural psychology, counselling psychology & organisational psychology.
Graduates are also very well placed to follow career paths outside of psychology, in fields such as human resources, recruitment, management, consultancy and marketing.
Further Study Options
Upon successful completion of the BA (Honours) in Psychology, graduates who have acquired the appropriate entry requirements can progress to postgraduate programmes at level 9 on the National Framework of Qualifications such as the
MA in HRM
at National College of Ireland, as well as clinical, educational, occupational and counselling psychology at other venues.
Who is the course for?
This course will appeal to students who have a curiosity about the human mind and who wish to work in a variety of related fields. The course is for school leavers, mature students and graduates of QQI level 5/6 programmes who wish to embark on a course of full-time study.
Minimum Entry Requirements
Minimum entry requirements are a grade H5 and above in two higher level subjects together with a minimum of O6/H7 in four other subjects. A minimum of grade O6/H7 must be obtained in English. A grade O6/H7 must be obtained in Mathematics.
For applicants whose first language is not English, please note the
English language entry requirements
.
For international students, please visit NCI's
Your Country
section to view the specific entry requirements for your region.
Mature applicants
, applicants with a disability or those applying through the
DARE
or
HEAR
access schemes can find out more information on the
application process
.
Please note that exams can be scheduled during the morning, afternoon or evening Monday to Saturday.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
CAO Points
2025 CAO Points Guide :* 400
*For each course we have given a guideline based on our points over the past 3 years. This is a guide only, points vary each year.
The CAO course code is NC010.
QQI Level 5/6 Requirements
Students must obtain a minimum of 3 distinctions and a full award and meet the CAO points requirements to apply for this Level 8 course.
Visit our
QQI Applicants
page for further information.
Sports Scholarship
Did you know you can apply for a
Sports Scholarship
at NCI?
Watch this video
to hear from our current sports scholars Stephen Achukwu (basketball) and Adam Leonard (football):
Course Fee
The fee for this course is €6,250 per annum payable by the student (fees revised annually). Students on this course may qualify for the
Student Grant Scheme
.
International Students' Fees
Please note that effective from September 2026, the programme fee for International students is €14,000 per year.
For more information on international fees, please visit
International Fees & Funding
and
International Scholarships
.
Learn more about studying at NCI as an
international student
.
Student Profile