Certificate in Professional Employment Law & Practice
Course Instance ID:
922151928
Description:
Certificate in Professional Employment Law & Practice
Duration:
18 weeks
NFQ Level:
Level 7
Brochure:
Download Certificate in Professional Employment Law & Practice brochure
This certificate will give you the skills and knowledge needed in managing difficult employment situations at work and changing the working climate. The course covers the key aspects of employment law and employee relations required by HR professionals, line and owner managers. The course is highly practical applying case law to real life situations, taught by lecturers with practical experience of these situations.
Course details
About this Course
On completion, participants will be able to deal with such issues as poor performance, dismissals, redundancies and equality issues. Participants will also understand alternative dispute mechanisms, employee voice and international employee relations. With new EU directives coming around collective bargaining, it has never been more important for employers to upskill in this area. An innovative assessment structure is in place which promotes both the understanding of academic principles and the application of skill. Assessment is by means of skills demonstration, written projects and case assignments.
Upon successful completion of the certificate, graduates will be exempt from two modules of the (CIPD) Diploma in Professional Human Resource Practice. Note that the Certificate in Professional Employment Law & Practice is a short programme, and further modules are required to gain CIPD accreditation.
Who is the course for?
This part-time course is suitable for those who are working in HR or for those with  experience in some aspects of HR who wish to update their skills and further their career. Given the importance of the issues, the course will also appeal to those working at line manager level or those running a small business with no HR unit in place.
Award
Graduates will receive a Level 7 QQI Certificate in Professional Employment Law and Practice.
Entry Requirements
This course is designed to appeal to those working in HR or seeking to upgrade their knowledge of employment law. There are no specific academic requirements with applicants considered based on relevant work and other experience.
Please note that due to QQI regulations, students who wish to register for this course must have an address in Ireland.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Course Content
Applied Employment Law
Employment Relations
For more information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Indicative Schedule
1 evening a week 18:30 – 22.00 plus one Saturday.
Please note that exams can be scheduled during the morning, afternoon or evening Monday to Saturday.
Course Delivery
Online, live interactive classes.
Duration
18 weeks.
Course Fee
€1,300 total fee.
(Fees revised annually)
Student Profile