MBA at NCI
Our highly regarded Master of Business Administration (MBA) part-time two-year course is a well-established route to career success for our many successful students.
About the MBA at NCI
Why Choose NCI for your MBA?
MBA Course Content
How to Apply to the MBA
MBA Student Profile
Meet the Faculty of the MBA
Master of Business Administration (MBA) at NCI
An MBA will challenge you, inspire you and give you confidence to move forward in your career. Put simply, an MBA is a milestone in both your personal and professional development.
At NCI, our MBA programme will provide you with a strong theoretical foundation in the broader disciplines of management as well as focusing on the practical application of theory in real world settings and cases. You will be exposed to the latest thinking in the core disciplines of enterprise, leadership, organisational management, people management, strategy, decision-making, management of financial resources and economics.
Two Years
Part-Time
€6,825 per annum
City Centre
Apply Online
Why Choose NCI for your MBA?
The MBA at NCI aims to encourage entrepreneurial thinking in our students, a valuable and essential skill in business leadership.
Why Choose NCI
MBA Course Content
The course emphasises the development of effective business and management skills to solve management problems through structured analysis, problem solving techniques and effective decision-making.
MBA Programme
MBA Student Profile
The MBA students in NCI come from a diverse set of backgrounds, making the course community a rich, varied and interesting one.
Learn More
274
Students have enrolled on the MBA Programme since 2011
15
Nationalities have been represented on the MBA Programme
70%
MBA holders see their salaries increase by 20% or more in the 2 years following graduation.
94%
Of MBA students are aged between 30-50+
Meet our MBA Students
Hear from students who share their experience studying the Master of Business Administration at National College of Ireland.
MBA Student Video
Andy Byrne shares how the MBA  at NCI made him more confident and helped put his career on the right track.
Watch Video
MBA Student Story
Alan Roche shares how the MBA at NCI helped him drive the growth and success of his organisation.
Read Alan's Story
MBA Advice
Learn more about the MBA programme and how it can help further your career.
What Do MBA Graduates Say About NCI’s Degree?
5 Big Reasons to Study an MBA
Apply Online
At National College of Ireland, our long-standing MBA programme is built on a strong entrepreneurial spirit that fosters creativity, innovation, and critical thinking. Our graduates leave with a curious mindset, ready to take calculated risks and approach challenges with fresh, strategic perspectives
Professor Breda McTaggart, Dean School of Business NCI