Certificate in Leadership, Governance and Change Management in Early Childhood Home Visiting
Course Instance ID:
913533911
Description:
Certificate in Leadership, Governance and Change Management in Early Childhood Home Visiting
Duration:
12 weeks
NFQ Level:
Level 7
Brochure:
Download Certificate in Leadership, Governance and Change Management in Early Childhood Home Visiting brochure
Over the course of this 12-week programme, you will develop knowledge, skills, and values, through the study of key topics incorporated throughout the programme. These include leadership theories and concepts, sociocultural theory, learning styles, preparing training and development, change and conflict management, and national early childhood frameworks and policy.
The programme is awarded by QQI at Level 7 on the National Framework of Qualifications.
Course details
About this Course
The aims and objectives of this microcredential is to support Home Visitors to acquire the knowledge, skills, experiences and values to effectively lead professional practice.
Coordinators will develop the skills and knowledge to support Home Visitors to become leaders and skilled in their role of supporting parents to promote and scaffold their children’s learning and development in home environments. This certificate in will lead to a special purpose award at Level 7 (10 ECTS credits).
This certificate in will lead to a special purpose award at Level 7 (10 ECTS credits).
Who is the course for?
This course is ideally suited to coordinators supporting Home Visitors whom already have some experience of leading and wish to deepen and extend their leadership, governance and change management practices.
This course is also suited to Home Visitors planning to work as coordinators in early childhood home visiting programmes and wish to develop professional knowledge, skills and competencies for effective leadership.
Alongside Home Visitors, this course is suitable for early childhood years practitioners/ educators, managers in early childhood settings such as crèche, or Naíonraí, and special educational needs environments. It is also for those who would like to be an inspector/evaluator, mentor, for the Health Service Executive, DES or TUSLA (the child and family support agency and curriculum trainers).
Course Content
For information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Course Delivery
Blended - Livestream with some directed e-learning activities.
Award and Progression
The Certificate in Early Childhood Education and Care will lead to a special purpose award at Level 7 (10 ECTS credits) on the National Framework of Qualifications.
Learners who successfully complete this course may opt to progress to the Bachelors of Arts (Hons) Early Childhood Education and Care.
Entry Requirements
Candidates will be learning professionals working as coordinators supporting Early Childhood Home Visitors or those interested in pursuing a coordinator role or similar. Candidates will typically have a Certificate (major award) at level 5 or equivalent in any discipline.
For applicants whose first language is not English, please note the
English language entry requirements
.
The college operates a
Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL)
scheme meaning that applicants who do not meet the normal academic requirements will be considered based on relevant work and other experience.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Garda Vetting
Incoming students must undergo Garda Vetting. Garda Vetting is part of the admissions process. Garda Vetting applications must be submitted to NCI prior to commencing the programme.
The completed
Vetting Invitation Form (NVB1)
and supporting documentation must be submitted as soon as an application is completed. Download our
Guidelines on the Garda Vetting Process
for further information.
Programme offers will remain conditional until part 1 of the Garda Vetting process is completed.
Indicative Schedule
These courses consist of 12 sessions with a blend of virtual classroom sessions and directed online activities. Classes take place on Tuesday from 18:00-21:00.
Please note that exams can be scheduled during the morning, afternoon or evening Monday to Saturday.
Duration
12 weeks.
Course Fee
€1,200
(Fees revised annually)
You can spread the cost of this course with a
direct debit plan
.
Student Profile