Why Choose NCI for your MBA?
The NCI MBA has a strong entrepreneurial emphasis and will harness your ability to think creatively and see beyond the existing formula.
Choosing NCI for your MBA
The MBA at NCI aims to encourage entrepreneurial thinking in our students, a valuable and essential skill in business leadership.
Our emphasis on developing an entrepreneurial mindset makes the NCI MBA a highly regarded and much-sought-after qualification for employers globally.
Diverse Network
Students on the NCI MBA programme come from diverse backgrounds, allowing you to network with like-minded people as you study. Our typical student has had five years’ experience at advanced middle management level in prestigious companies including Aer Lingus, Citibank and Pfizer.
Learn More About MBA Students
Challenging Course
The MBA course is designed to be challenging and engaging, encouraging you to think outside the box and tackle problems in a practical and innovative way. To do this, our course features experienced speakers and real world business projects to deliver a truly enriching experience.
Discover the MBA Course Content
Experienced Faculty
Our modules are delivered by faculty members who have both a proud and distinguished career in academia as well as extensive experience in their chosen business sectors. This means our lectures and modules are informative, engaging, inspiring and practical.
Meet the MBA Faculty
Excellent Location & Convenient Times
NCI’s MBA is a two-year part-time course with lectures and classes on Monday and Wednesday evenings, plus some Saturday workshops. Our location in the heart of Dublin’s financial district makes our course a convenient and practical choice for those wishing to balance work and studying for a top-class MBA.
NCI Location & Directions
International Recognition
An MBA is an internationally recognised qualification that will enable you to position yourself to move into the highest levels of international business. With over 65 years of experience in delivering real-world management education, NCI's MBA course is highly regarded, practical, inspiring and a real career game-changer for our graduates.
Apply Now