Higher Certificate in International Financial Services - Apprenticeship
Course Instance ID:
829192322
Description:
Higher Certificate in International Financial Services - Apprenticeship
Duration:
2 years
NFQ Level:
Level 6
The IFS Associate Apprenticeship offers a two-year full-time job with a leading financial services company whilst studying to achieve a Higher Certificate in International Financial Services.
The
IFS Apprenticeships
allow you to 'earn while you learn' by combining paid on the job training with academic study which is delivered at National College of Ireland.
Location
Start Date
IFSC Campus
16/09/2026
Apply Now
Course details
Course Description
This programme seeks to provide the appropriate education and training to allow successful graduates be registered with SOLAS as an IFS Associate Apprentice. Through a combination of off-the-job and on-the-job learning, apprentices will develop skills that are key to working in International Financial Services. These skills include areas of regulation and compliance, products and services, client communications and relationships, systems and processes, etc., within the context of International Financial Services.
Course Structure
This programme is structured over two academic calendar years. On-the-job modules are structured to run over the length of each academic year. Assessment of off-the-job modules comprises a combination of continuous assessment and exams. On-the-job assessment is via an ongoing electronic portfolio of work-based evidence that is submitted in year 1 and in year 2.
Who is the course for?
The Higher Certificate in International Financial Services is aimed at those who are looking to start their career in International Financial Services.
Minimum Entry Requirements
Minimum entry requirements are a grade H7/O6 or above in five leaving certificate (or equivalent) subjects. A minimum of grade O6 must be obtained in English. A minimum of grade O6 or a B2 or above in Foundation level must be obtained in Mathematics.
Holders of a QQI Level 5 Certificate in Business (or equivalent) or QQI Level 6 Advanced Certificate in Business (or equivalent) can apply for entry onto the programme. Non-standard applications will be also considered on an individual basis. Applicants under 21 will be assessed based on Leaving Certificate or equivalent.
Applicants must be a minimum of 18 years of age before commencing the academic programme.
For applicants whose first language is not English, please note the
English language entry requirements
.
As this is an Apprenticeship programme, participation on the programme is contingent upon the apprentice being offered an Apprenticeship role with an employer participating in the Apprenticeship scheme.
Please note that exams can be scheduled during the morning, afternoon or evening Monday to Saturday.
Course Content
For information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Application Process
Applicants who meet the entry requirements of the course will progress to the next stage where their details will be sent to employers for review. If you are successful in getting an interview, the employer will contact you directly.
You will need the following documents to complete your application:
An up-to-date copy of your CV.
*Transcripts from previous courses for proof of education qualifications.
Supplementary form will be requested to be completed.
Spark Hire one-way virtual interview will be requested to be completed.
Please note, this course does not meet the requirements for international student visas. Applicants must ensure they have an appropriate visa to work in Ireland for the duration of the course.
*Leaving Certificate students are welcome to apply, and if selected for the apprenticeship, can provide their transcript of results when they are issued. This must be prior to the apprenticeship start date and must meet entry criteria.
Indicative Schedule
Timetable information for this programme can be found on our
IFS Apprenticeship Timetables
page.
Student Profile