Part-Time
How to apply
For our part-time courses you can apply online by visiting the
course page
of your chosen course and clicking on the 'Apply Online' button.
International applicants
NCI welcomes applications from overseas students who satisfy the appropriate
admission requirements
. A certificate of
competence in English
is required.
For further details on courses click on our part-time course listing or call 1800 22 1721.
Registration
Registration of new and existing students is ongoing on receipt of fees payment. Registration for all new and returning non-Dublin based Off-Campus students will take place by post.
The NCI Orientation Programme gives all new students the opportunity to get to know more about the College and its various sources of information and support before starting fully into the academic year. NCI holds the Orientation Programme for all new part-time students at the College during the first week of Semester one.
Orientation for new off-campus students based in the greater Dublin area takes place during the first week of semester one and for new students undertaking programmes at off-campus locations outside of Dublin, Orientation is delivered at Regional Centres around the country.
In addition to the initial Orientation Programme, throughout the academic year, all classes have access to workshops on study and writing skills, time management, exam techniques, personal development and career management.
Orientation
Orientation for all new part-time students at NCI will be held during the week preceding the beginning of the part time academic year. The NCI Orientation Programme gives all new students the opportunity to get to know more about the College and its various sources of information and support before starting fully into the academic year. In addition to the initial Orientation Programme, throughout the year all classes have access to workshops on study and writing skills, time management, exam techniques, personal development and career management.