IFS Apprenticeships at NCI
The International Financial Services Apprenticeships offer a unique way to start a career or upskill in the financial services sector.
Become an IFS Apprentice
Hire an IFS Apprentice
Contact Us
Considering a Career in Financial Services?
The higher certificate and higher diploma programmes in financial services allow you to 'earn while you learn' by combining paid on the job training with academic study which is delivered at National College of Ireland. These two-year programmes are suitable for leaving certificate students or those with an equivalent qualification, who have an interest in pursuing a career in the financial services sector.
IFS Apprenticeship Programmes at NCI
The IFS apprenticeships lead to a Level 6 Higher Certificate in International Financial Services or a Level 8 Higher Diploma in Financial Services Analytics.
Higher Certificate in International Financial Services Apprenticeship
This programme is designed to help students develop skills in regulation and compliance, products and services and client communications.
This course is suitable for school leavers interested in starting a career in International Financial Services.
2 Years | Level 6 | Higher Certificate
See Course Details
Higher Diploma in International Financial Services Apprenticeship
Through a combination of off-the-job and on-the-job learning, apprentices will develop skills in data mining, data management and data analysis within the context of International Financial Services.
This programme is for graduates who hold a Level 8 degree.
2 Years | Level 8 | Higher Diploma
See Course Details
Explore IFS Apprenticeship Resources
Additional information about the IFS Apprenticeship, including how to become an IFS Apprentice, how to hire an IFS Apprentice and details regarding course timetables, can be found in the section below.
Become an IFS Apprentice
The International Financial Services Apprenticeship offers a unique way to start a career or upskill in the financial services sector.
Hire an IFS Apprentice
The IFS Apprenticeship offers an unrivalled opportunity for employers to develop their talent pipeline and drive business growth.
Apprenticeship Courses
Visit our apprenticeship course pages for a description of each of our apprenticeships and information on the course content, entry requirements and application process.
IFS Apprenticeship Timetables
Students completing an IFS Apprenticeship with NCI will find their timetable information here.
Frequently Asked Questions
Read through some of the most common questions candidates have when considering applying for an IFS Apprenticeship.
Contact Us
If you would like to learn more, please contact the IFS Apprenticeship team for further information.
The IFS Apprenticeship is a brilliant experience for anyone interested in building a career in finance - thank you for a great couple of years!
IFS Apprenticeship Graduate