Fintech Courses
Join the fintech revolution and future-proof your career by studying one of the innovative courses on this subject at National College of Ireland.
Find a course
Studying Fintech at NCI
Information technology innovations and computing resources availability have revolutionised the financial sector in the last decades. Data analytics, new technologies (e.g., blockchain) and business models (e.g., crowdfunding), and the modernisation of the financial sector regulations are creating opportunities to the emergence of disruptive services and challenger institutions.
National College of Ireland's fintech courses, with the latest knowledge, skills, and competencies at the intersection of finance and technology, allow you to exploit opportunities in this rapidly evolving area.
Visit the course pages to learn how to apply.
Diploma Courses in Fintech
These part-time diploma courses are designed for graduates who wish to transition into a career in fintech or those looking to gain experience and advance their knowledge, skills and competencies in this space.
Higher Diploma in Science in Fintech
This course typically appeals to those who possess a level 8 qualification in any discipline and wish to transfer to a career in fintech. Learners need to have a strong commitment to the course and a willingness to fully engage with the technical content.
1 Year | Level 8 | Part-Time | Blended
See Course Details
Postgraduate Diploma in Science in Fintech
This course provides learners with
the latest knowledge, skills, and
competencies, allowing
them to exploit opportunities in the
rapidly evolving area of fintech.
1 Year | Level 9 | Part-Time | Blended/Online
See Course Details
Useful Resources
Scholarships
Upcoming Events
Blog Post
FAQs
Master's Degrees in Fintech
You have the choice to study the MSc in Fintech either part-time (over two-years) or full-time (over one-year) at National College of Ireland. Online applications are now open, visit a course page to get started.
MSc in Fintech - Part-Time
This interdisciplinary course will appeal to graduates of finance, computing and business seeking to enter the area of fintech and industry practitioners seeking to gain insightful experience and exposure to the principles of fintech.
2 Years | Level 9 | Part-Time | Blended
See Course Details
MSc in Fintech - Full-Time
NCI is perfectly placed to deliver an industry-focused programme inspired by its location at the heart of the International Financial Services Centre. The course is completely delivered by faculty and industry practitioners with established experience in the fintech domain.
1 Year | Level 9 | Full-Time | Blended
See Course Details
Get in Touch
If you have any questions about our fintech courses, get in touch with our Admissions Team by emailing admissions@ncirl.ie.
Contact Us