NCI Courses - 9HNMP - Harnessing Neurodiversity in the Workplace
Back to main NCI website »
Search Type
programmes
Modules
Search Box
9HNMP - Harnessing Neurodiversity in the Workplace
Download Module
Print View
Module Details
Module Code:
9HNMP
Long Title:
Harnessing Neurodiversity in the Workplace
Title:
Harnessing Neurodiversity in the Workplace
Module Level::
LEVEL 9
EQF Level:
7
Credits::
10
Module Coordinator:
DAVE CORMACK (55000060)
Module Author::
Eileen Long (55003434)
Departments:
School of Business and Social Sciences
Specifications of the qualifications and experience required of staff
Learning Outcomes
On successful completion of this module the learner will be able to:
#
Learning Outcome Description
LO1
Provide evidence of a deep level of understanding of Neurodiversity and the neurological bases of Neurodiversity
LO2
Critically examine current issues in neurodiversity and develop practical expertise that can be applied to minimise barriers in the workplace
LO3
Synthesise an integrated and systematic understanding of various discourses regarding neurodivergent experiences.
LO4
Provide evidence of a critical awareness of the difficulties and opportunities associated with a cross-section of neurodiversity in the workplace
LO5
Develop and document a plan to maximise an organisations’ ability to harness Neurodiverse talent.
Dependencies
Module Recommendations
This is prior learning (or a practical skill) that is required before enrolment on this module. While the prior learning is expressed as named NCI module(s) it also allows for learning (in another module or modules) which is equivalent to the learning specified in the named module(s).
No recommendations listed
Co-requisite Modules
This is a list of modules that must be studied if this module is selected as an elective or has an integrative assessment
No Co-requisite modules listed
Entry requirements
Indicative Content
Introduction to Neurodiversity
Learners will be introduced to currently recognised forms of neurodiversity. These workshops will include an explanation of the diagnosis and impacts of a range of diversities and explore the historical context and evolution of neurodiversity recognition. 
An introductory discussion will focus on the neurological bases of neurodiversity.
Legal frameworks, rights and behaviours related to neurodiversity in the workplace
Learners will explore the broader societal issues of neurodiversity such as attitudes to disability, international and national policy developments such as UNCRPD, SDGs, equality legislation, voices of neurodiverse people.
Strengths and Contributions of Neurodiverse Individuals
Learners will explore how Neurodiverse individuals can be an asset in the workplace and how best to capitalise on the talents of everyone in the organisation. This segment will include developing strategies to identify and develop the unique talents of neurodiverse employees and for recruitment and retention.
Addressing Workplace Challenges Associated with Neurodiversity
Each neurodiversity presents challenges, and this section will further develop the learners' understanding of these challenges and prepare the foundation for the next section.
Inclusive Workplace Strategies
Learners will explore how to evaluate the workplace and how to plan for inclusivity of diversity to gain corporate advantage. This section will include an introduction to workplace playbooks and the development of performance indicators to measure the effectiveness of neurodiversity initiatives.
Module Content & Assessment
Assessment Breakdown
%
Coursework
100.00%
Assessments
Part Time
Coursework
Assessment Type
Continuous Assessment
% of Total Mark
50
Timing
n/a
ASSESSMENT_LearningOutcomes
1,2,3,4,5
Non-Marked
No
Assessment Description
Learners will be asked to provide a written report of 3,000 to 4,000 words or a multi-media equivalent demonstrating their understanding of Neurodiversity and the challenges and opportunities presented in the workplace
Assessment Type
Continuous Assessment
% of Total Mark
50
Timing
n/a
ASSESSMENT_LearningOutcomes
1,2,3,4,5
Non-Marked
No
Assessment Description
A freeform assignment to be taken individually or in groups which will present a proposal on how to make a workplace neurodiverse friendly ready
No End of Module Assessment Approved
No Workplace Assessment Approved
Reassessment Requirement
Coursework Only
This module is reassessed solely on the basis of re-submitted coursework. There is no repeat written examination.
Reassessment Description
Students must pass all components of assessment on the module; a component fail leads to a component repeat. Repeat assessment will be set by the lecturer and will assess the achievement of all learning outcomes
NCIRL reserves the right to alter the nature and timings of assessment
Module Workload
Module Target Workload Hours 0 Hours
Workload: Part Time
Workload Type
Contact Type
Workload Description
Frequency
Average Weekly Learner Workload
Hours
Lecture
Contact
No Description
Per Semester
1.00
12
Directed E-Learning
Contact
No Description
Per Semester
1.00
12
Tutorial
Contact
No Description
Per Semester
1.00
12
Independent Learning
Non Contact
No Description
Per Semester
17.83
214
Total Weekly Contact Hours
3.00
Module Resources
Recommended Book Resources
Assemble You Limited (2023) Introduction to neurodiversity in the workplace (audio). O’Reilly Learning. Available at: https://learning.oreilly.com/videos/introduction-to-neurodiversity/125073AYPOD/.
Caven, V. and Nachmias, S. (2017) Hidden inequalities in the workplace: A guide to the current challenges, issues and business solutions. ProQuest Ebook Central. Available at: https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/ncirlie/detail.action?docID=4946525.
Supplementary Book Resources
Booth, J. (2016) Autism equality in the workplace: Removing barriers and challenging discrimination. EBSCO eBook Business Collection. Available at: https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&AuthType=ip,shib&db=e020mww&AN=1197144&site=ehost-l.
Recommended Article/Paper Resources
Austin, R. B. and Pisano, G. P. (2021)
‘Neurodiversity as a competitive
advantage: Why you should embrace it in
your workforce’, Harvard Business
Review, 95(3), p.pp. 9.
Dunne, M. (2023) ‘Building the
neurodiversity talent pipeline for the
future of work’, MIT Sloan Management
Review, 65(1), p.pp.1.
Other Resources
Website, www.asiam.ie.
Website, www.dyslexia.ie.
Website, www.adhdireland.ie.
Website, https://www.dyspraxia.ie/.
Website, http://www.mysupportnetwork.ie/illnesses
-disabilit.
Website, https://neurodiversityireland.com/.
Discussion Note: