Become an IFS Apprentice
Why Join an IFS Apprenticeship?
The International Financial Services Apprenticeship offers a unique way to start a career or upskill in the financial services sector.
What is an IFS Apprenticeship
The IFS apprenticeships are 'earn while you learn' Higher Certificate and Higher Diploma programmes that combine paid on the job training with academic study.
These two-year programmes are for those who wish to start a career in the financial services industry, or are already working in the sector and wish to upskill.
The IFS apprenticeships lead to the following courses:
Higher Certificate in International Financial Services
Higher Diploma in Financial Services Analytics
How to become an IFS Apprentice
Candidates visit the dedicated Apprenticeships section NCI website.
Candidates register to be accepted onto the apprenticeship programme once they meet minimum requirements for the programmes.
A member of the NCI team will contact the candidate to discuss the application further and finalise the details. Once approved, the candidates details will be automated into a candidate booklet which will then be released to employers/clients.
Clients will reach out to candidates that they wish to offer an interview to from April. At interview stage the clients will speak to prospects regarding which roles they have available in the company.
The steps involved in becoming an IFS Apprentice.
Who is the apprenticeship for?
The IFS Apprenticeships are a great opportunity for:
Career Starters
: Looking for the chance to gain a Higher Certificate in International Financial Services or a Higher Diploma in Financial Services Analytics and gain industry experience and a salary?
Career Changers
: Working in industry already but looking to upskill or reskill in a relevant area in the Financial Services environment?
Career Progressors
: Working in industry and looking to upskill with your current or a new employer? Want to increase your skills and knowledge?
What you need to know
You will gain a Higher Certificate in International Financial Services or Higher Diploma in Financial Services Analytics
You will follow a learning structure of 4 days per week on the job and 1 day per week in academia
You will be paid a salary, set by your employer, both on the job and off the job
You must be offered an apprenticeship role in a Financial Services organisation to become an IFS Apprentice
Entry Requirements
IFS Associate (Level 6 Apprenticeship)
Minimum 5 Leaving Certificate Subjects including English and Maths
Holders of equivalent QQI Level 5/6 qualifications will be considered
IFS Specialist (Level 8 Apprenticeship)
Learners graduating with a 2.2 honours degree at level 8 in any discipline
RPEL applications will be considered from applicants who have a number of years of significant work experience
For further information on entry requirements, please refer to our
courses
page or
get in touch
with our team.
Who We Work With
Companies who have hired IFS Apprentices previously include:
AIB
Amundi
Bank of Ireland
BNY Mellon
Fenergo
Permanent TSB
State Street
Ulster Bank
Useful Information
FAQs
Contact Us