BA (Honours) in HRM Strategy and Practice
Course Instance ID:
503702698
Description:
BA (Honours) in HRM Strategy and Practice
Duration:
3 stages
NFQ Level:
Level 8
Brochure:
Download BA (Honours) in HRM Strategy and Practice brochure
The BA (Hons) in Human Resource Management Strategy and Practice provides learners with an in-depth knowledge of Human Resource Management (HRM), its core theories and application within the organisation.
The programme provides you with a comprehensive understanding of the key skills required of the human resource professional.
Course details
About this Course
Core business modules including Business Law, Finance & Accounting for HR Professionals, Management Theory and Practice are covered as well as modules which are essential for HR practitioners e.g.: Resourcing and Talent Planning, Employment Law, Employee Relations, Learning and Development, Diversity & Inclusion and Change & Organisational Development. The programme also covers modules which explore new and evolving HR practices such as HR Analytics, Strategic HRM, and Contemporary Issues in HRM.
Our experienced faculty and the block delivery nature of the programme enables the course to offer you an interesting range of HRM and business assignments that will see you undertake a variety of activities from critically assessing approaches to HRM taken in real organisations to conducting recruitment and selection activities. This emphasis on practical and academic skills development together with industry experienced expert lecturers will make for a fulfilling learning experience.
Upon successful completion of the degree, you will become CIPD qualified and achieve Professional Membership of CIPD at the Associate Member level. CIPD qualifications and membership are often required by employers seeking to hire Human Resources / Learning & Development professionals.
Who is the course for?
The programme is designed to suit the needs of part-time students requiring a professional CIPD recognised qualification and is aimed at people already working in HRM or intending to
move into the area.
Award and Progression
The Bachelor of Arts (Honours) in Human Resource Management Strategy and Practice is awarded by QQI at level 8 on the National Framework of Qualifications. This award will allow progression to level 9 courses on the NFQ such as NCI’s
MA in Human Resource Management
.
Note that students may exit after completing stage 1 (60 credits) and receive a Diploma in HRM Strategy and Practice awarded by QQI at level 7 on the NFQ. Students who leave after successful completion of Stage 1 are eligible for Associate membership of CIPD.
Course Content
Stage 1
Academic Writing
HR Professional Practice
Resourcing and Talent Planning
Employment Law
HRM in the Corporate Framework
Reward Management
Introduction to Employee Relations
Stage 2
Finance & Accounting for the HR Professional
Management Theory and Practice
Organisational Behaviour
Diversity and Inclusion
Learning and Development
Ethics & Corporate Governance
Essentials of Business Law
Stage 3
Strategic HRM
Contemporary Issues in HRM
Change and Organisational Development
Economic and Social Policy
Contemporary Issues in IR
HR Analytics
This course is delivered with online lectures and online learning materials and, subject to guidelines, supported by classroom-based learning events. This gives students the opportunity to meet up in the college and speak directly with lecturers and fellow learners.
For more information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
How is the course delivered?
The course is delivered over three stages with each stage consisting of two intensive blocks with a short break built-in after completion of each block and over the summer period.
Submission deadlines and exams may fall within the break period.
This course is supported with online materials that supplement classroom-based lectures.
Typically the schedule would be:
Stage 1
Block One
September to mid-December 2026
Break
Block Two
Mid-January to mid-late April 2027
Break
Stage 2
Block Three
Mid-May to early August 2027
Break
Block Four
Mid-September to mid-December 2027
Break
Stage 3
Block Five
Mid-January to mid-April 2028
Break
Block Six
May to August 2028
Course Delivery
Blended (Online with some face-to-face classes).
Evening weekdays online and Saturdays on campus.
Entry Requirements
The course is designed to appeal to those at work or seeking to re-enter the workforce. There are no specific academic requirements with applicants considered based on work and other experience. Applicants under 21 will be assessed based on Leaving Certificate or equivalent.
For applicants whose first language is not English, please note the
English language entry requirements
.
Note that applicants with a CIPD Diploma in People Management (HRM) from NCI may apply to enter directly at stage 2 of this degree programme.
Any applicant with substantial experience may be eligible for module exemptions from Stage 2 only. You can apply by showing evidence of prior learning based on your employment/relevant academic experience.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Indicative Schedule
Two evenings per week 18.00-22.00 plus some Saturdays 09.00-18.00. Approximately 1 Saturday per month.
Please note that exams can be scheduled during the morning, afternoon or evening Monday to Saturday. Exams may take the form of online or in person.
Duration
Three stages over 2 years.
Course Fee
The cost of this course is €4,250 per stage.
Full degree encompasses 3 stages, total fee is €12,750.
(Fees revised annually)
You can spread the cost of this course with our
direct debit plan
.
Scholarships and Discounts
We offer a range of
scholarship opportunities and discount offers
available to both NCI and non-NCI graduates that will help you access this course.
Student Profile