(CIPD) Diploma in Professional Learning & Organisational Development
Course Instance ID:
922149806
Description:
(CIPD) Diploma in Professional Learning & Organisational Development
Duration:
1 Year
NFQ Level:
Level 7
Brochure:
Download (CIPD) Diploma in Professional Learning & Organisational Development brochure
This programme covers Learning Design, Facilitation and Digital & Blended Learning for all those involved in the development of people. We take the best-in-class theory and approaches and help you apply it to your organisation. Learning alongside other professionals, you will be taught by lecturers with years of practical experience in Learning & Development.
Course details
About this Course
An innovative assessment structure is in place which promotes both the understanding of academic principles and the application of skill. Assessment is by means of skills assessments, projects, case assignments and exams.
The programme is taught in a blended format, with evening classes taking place in our live, virtual classroom and Saturday workshops taking place on campus in the IFSC.
Who is the course for?
The programme is for those involved in training, learning, organisational development and talent development in organisations or those wishing to move into that career. The wide range of participants will be a vital part of your learning experience. The course is ideal for those who want to gain Professional Membership of CIPD. CIPD qualifications and membership are often required by employers seeking to hire HR professionals.
Award
Graduates will receive a Level 7 QQI Diploma in Professional Learning & Organisational Development. The course leads to CIPD qualification and Associate Membership of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD). A separate membership fee (currently stg£140, but subject to revision) should be paid directly to CIPD to gain student membership.
Entry Requirements
This course is designed to appeal to those at work or seeking to make a career change towards training and development. There are no specific academic requirements with applicants considered based on relevant work and other experience.
Please note that due to QQI regulations, students who wish to register for this course must have an address in Ireland.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Course Content
Learning & Development Design and Evaluation
Facilitation of Learning & Development
Organisation Culture & Development
HRD Professional Practice
Strategy & Future Developments in Learning & Development
Digital Learning and Development
Coaching in Organisations
For more information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Indicative Schedule
2 evenings a week 18.30-22.00 plus 5 on-campus Saturdays during the course 09.30-17.30.
Please note that exams can be scheduled during the morning, afternoon or evening Monday to Saturday.
Course Delivery
Blended (Online with some face-to-face classes). Evening weekdays online and some Saturdays on campus.
Duration
1 academic year.
Course Fee
€3,750 total fee.
(Fees revised annually)
You can spread the cost of this course with a
direct debit plan
.
Student Profile