Master of Business Administration (MBA)
Course Instance ID:
503918027
Description:
Master of Business Administration (MBA)
Duration:
2 years
NFQ Level:
Level 9
Brochure:
Download Master of Business Administration (MBA) brochure
The MBA course will provide you with a strong theoretical foundation in the broader disciplines of management as well as focusing on the practical application of theory in real world settings and cases. You will be exposed to the latest thinking in the core disciplines of enterprise, leadership, organisational management, people management, strategy, decision-making, management of financial resources and economics
You will be able to choose from a wide range of electives specialising in areas such as marketing, law, project management and doing business on the cloud. There will also be the opportunity to participate in an exciting enterprise management simulation game.
Visit our
MBA section
to learn more about this course.
Course details
About this Course
The course is underpinned by a strong foundation in enterprise and leadership and emphasises the development of effective business and management skills to solve management problems through structured analysis, problem solving techniques, effective decision-making, and effective communications.
The knowledge and skills acquired through our MBA will allow you to progress your own management career as well as encourage you to consider creating a business of your own. It will allow you to develop a creative, innovative and entrepreneurial perspective.
Block teaching is used to provide the opportunity for more in-depth development of knowledge within modules. An applied approach to teaching is used within the programme with lectures interspersed with exercises, use of case study analysis, group activities in class, debate on contemporary issues, as well as independent learning.
Who is the course for?
The MBA is aimed at candidates with at least three years of work experience, seeking to start or develop a career in management.
Course Content
In both year 1 and year 2 of the programme, students are required to undertake two core modules per semester plus one elective in semester 2. In addition, in year 2 of the programme, students are required to complete a ten-credit research methods module, which runs across semester 1 and 2.
Core Modules
Entrepreneurial Dynamics
Macroeconomics in a Global Context
The Science of Decision Making
Managing Financial Resources
Strategic Management of Human Capital
Effective Leadership in the Organisation
Sustainable Business Leadership
Enterprise Simulation Game
Research Methods
Dissertation
Elective Modules
Corporate Governance, Business Ethics and CSR
Business Intelligence
Marketing in the Global Environment
Commercial Law
Employment Law
Contemporary Issues in Global Finance
Doing Business on the Cloud
Strategic Project Management
Management in Postmodern Markets
Elective Choices
Availability of elective choices is subject to student numbers. The course content as shown above is for indicative purposes. The college reserves the right to re-order the schedule of modules offered.
For more information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Award and Progression
The Master of Business Administration is awarded by QQI at level 9 on the National Framework of Qualifications. This award will allow transfer to level 9 research degrees and in some cases progression to doctoral study at level 10 on the NFQ.
Entry Requirements
Applicants are required to hold a minimum of a 2.2 honours degree in either a cognate or non-cognate area at level 8 on the National Framework of Qualifications and a minimum of three years’ postgraduate work experience, ideally but not necessarily, in management.
For applicants whose first language is not English, please note the
English language entry requirements
.
The College operates a
Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL)
scheme meaning non-graduates with extensive professional experience and other prior qualifications may also be considered for the course.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Indicative Schedule
Monday and Wednesday 18.00-22.00 live online plus a number of Saturdays on campus each term. The dates of these will be communicated to students at start of semester.
Please note that exams can be scheduled during the morning, afternoon or evening Monday to Saturday.
Course Delivery
Blended - Livestream (online) classes with some campus classes and some in-person exams, scheduled in advance.
See the
MBA course brochure
for an explanation of the learning methods.
Duration
This course runs over 2 full calendar years: 5 semesters; 4 taught semesters and a final dissertation to be submitted in the final year.
Course Fee
€6,825 per annum
(€13,650 total fee)
(Fees revised annually)
You can spread the cost of this course with a
direct debit plan
.
Scholarships and Discounts
We offer a range of
scholarship opportunities and discount offers
available to both NCI and non-NCI graduates that will help you access this course.
Graduate Testimonial
Watch this
video
to hear from MBA graduate Andy Byrne:
MBA Lecturer Profiles
"An MBA is an internationally recognised qualification – a ‘passport’ to greater things both personally and professionally. My teaching approach is all about providing the real-life tools and examples that help students identify and achieve these greater things." - David Hurley, Lecturer in Marketing and Entrepreneurship.
Learn more about the faculty
on the MBA course at NCI, and their approach to teaching.
Student Profile