Data Analytics Courses
Gain expert knowledge and improve your employability by studying data analytics at National College of Ireland.
Find a course
Studying Data Analytics at NCI
Data analysis is an area of great opportunity and there is increasing demand for people with these skills in the jobs market, both here in Ireland and internationally.
Unsurprisingly, this is a highly popular study choice as students aim to capitalise on the benefits of upskilling in this area.
National College of Ireland offers a range of data analytics and data science courses suitable for all types of learners; from those wishing to change career to those starting on their third-level education journey and those who want to push their knowledge to the limit.
Visit the course pages to learn how to apply.
Data Analytics Courses Funded By Springboard+
Our Springboard+ funded courses are ideal for students wishing to transition into a career in data analytics or advance their knowledge of this area. Classes start in September, visit the course page to learn how to apply.
Higher Diploma in Science in Data Analytics
The overall goal of the Higher Diploma in Science in Data Analytics is to provide students with a broad combination of themes around data analytics that creates valuable insight and professional expertise.
1 Year | Level 8 | Part-Time | Blended/Online
Course Details
Useful Resources
Springboard+
Online Sample Class
Blog Post
Springboard+ FAQs
Undergraduate Courses in Data Science
These courses are for school leavers applying through the CAO process, mature students, international students and those graduates of QQI level 5/6 programmes who are eligible for advanced entry. For domestic students applying through the CAO, this course applies under the Free Fees Initiative.
Higher Certificate in Data Science
This course will appeal to students who see the Higher Certificate as a progression route to a degree as graduates of this course can gain direct entry into year three of the BSc (Hons) in Data Science.
2 Years | Level 6 | Full-Time | NC105
See Course Details
BSc (Honours) in Data Science
This honours degree is practical in nature, providing you with knowledge of the way data science can solve real problems and facilitate business decisions based on evidence. It includes work placement which will significantly improve your skills and enhance your employability.
4 Years | Level 8 | Full-Time | NC025
See Course Details
Master's Degrees in Data Analytics
The MSc in Data Analytics is offered both full-time and part-time so you can choose the schedule that suits you best. Online applications are now open, visit a course page to get started.
MSc in Data Analytics - Part-Time
Delivered by faculty and industry practitioners with proven expertise in data analytics, this course aims to produce high-quality, technically competent, innovative graduates that will become leading practitioners in the field of data analytics.
2 Years | Level 9 | Part-Time | Blended
See Course Details
MSc in Data Analytics - Full-Time
This course is ideal for graduates that are looking to progress into the emerging data analytics market to increase their employment potential. The course is suitable for graduates who have technical or mathematical problem-solving skills.
1 Year | Level 9 | Full-Time | Blended
See Course Details
Postgraduate Degrees in Data Analytics
The Postgraduate Diploma in Science in Data Analytics is designed to accommodate those with specific interests in data analytics, whether that may be of a more technically focused or a more business focused nature
Postgraduate Diploma in Science in Data Analytics
This course is designed to meet the ever-growing need for deep skills in big data/analytics to fill a skills shortage in Ireland and will appeal to graduates who have substantial technical, especially programming, and mathematical/statistical skills.
1 Year | Level 9 | Part-Time | Blended/Online
See Course Details
Get in Touch
If you have any questions about our data analytics courses, get in touch with our Admissions Team by emailing admissions@ncirl.ie.
Contact Us