BA (Honours) in Marketing Practice
Course Instance ID:
503691258
Description:
BA (Honours) in Marketing Practice
Duration:
3 years
NFQ Level:
Level 8
Brochure:
Download BA (Honours) in Marketing Practice brochure
NCI’s BA (Honours) in Marketing Practice is a practical, hands-on degree that covers all the core marketing subjects such as brand management, consumer behaviour, digital marketing and entrepreneurship.
The final year concludes with an exciting capstone project, where you will work in teams developing real life business plans and platforms, where you will be expected to source products, develop marketing, communications and branding strategies in order to bring your ideas potential marketisation.
CAO Course Code:
NC020
Location
Start Date
IFSC Campus
14/09/2026
Apply Now
Course details
About this Course
Graduates of this course understand how modern marketing operates and how the various disciplines of marketing work together in Ireland and internationally; know how to analyse marketing problems in tough business environments and generate practical solutions; and can develop significant potential for employment opportunities in areas such as marketing, entrepreneurship, digital marketing and advertising.
High-achieving students (averaging 60% plus) may also be able to take advantage of an opportunity to engage in a year-long, accredited work placement between years two and three. This placement is credit-bearing and comprises an extra year in the degree. Access to such placements is limited and highly competitive.
CAO Open Day Events
Join us at one of our CAO Open Day events for Leaving Certificate students where you will be able to chat with our lecturers and talk to students about their course experiences.
Wednesday, May 13th 2026 - Register Here
Saturday, June 27th 2026 - Register Here
Course Content
Year 1
Fundamentals of Marketing
Economic and Market Practice
Brand Management
Management and the Organisation
Emerging Technologies for Business
Entrepreneurship
Marketing in Society
Innovation and Creativity
Year 2
Consumer Behaviour
Market Research
Business Intelligence and Statistics
Digital Marketing
Integrated Marketing Communications
Plus, two electives
Year 3
Marketing Law
Marketing Strategy
Project Management
Channel Management
Social Media & PR
Capstone Project
*Elective Modules
Financial Analysis & Reporting
Digital Technologies for Business
New Product Development
Services Marketing Management
Sales Management
Career Management Skills
Electives may include prerequisites, are subject to change, and availability is subject to class sizes.
For more information on the electives of this course, please download the
BA (Honours) in Marketing Practice
brochure.
For information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Course Structure and Award
This undergraduate course is a three-year honours degree (four years with the option of a placement*). The course is run over six semesters with continuous assessment held throughout the course and examinations at the end of each semester.
In each year of the degree, any student with an overall average of 70+ will win a Dean’s Award. On completion you will receive a QQI BA (Honours) Degree in Marketing Practice at level 8 on the National Framework of Qualifications.
*Students are eligible (subject to availability) to complete a work placement on year three of the programme and graduate after four years with 240 ECTS credits.
Work Placement
Work placements are highly regarded by graduate recruiters and offer many advantages to students. Advantages include the opportunity to make contact in industry, networking experience, work-based practical skills and experience, assisting in developing personal and professional confidence, and an opportunity to boost your employability prospects when you graduate.
In year 2 of this degree, high-achieving students (averaging 60% plus) can elect to do a year-long work placement. Opportunities exist to work in areas such as: brand management, digital marketing, market research, sales, product development and international marketing, within all industry sectors.
Career Prospects
Previous graduates have undertaken careers in brand management, digital marketing, market research, sales, product development and international marketing, within all industry sectors.
Read more about the
career pathways of NCI marketing students
.
Further Study Options
Upon successful completion of the BA (Honours) in Marketing Practice, graduates who have acquired the appropriate entry requirements can progress to postgraduate business courses at level 9 on the National Framework of Qualifications such as:
MSc in Marketing
or
Management
at National College of Ireland or postgraduate programmes in other institutions.
Minimum Entry Requirements
Minimum entry requirements are a grade H5 and above in two higher level subjects together with a minimum of O6/H7 in four other subjects. A minimum of grade O6/H7 must be obtained in English. A grade O6/H7 must be obtained in Mathematics.
For applicants whose first language is not English, please note the
English language entry requirements
.
For international students, please visit NCI's
Your Country
section to view the specific entry requirements for your region.
Mature applicants
, applicants with a disability or those applying through the
DARE
or
HEAR
access schemes can find out more information on the
application process
.
Please note that exams can be scheduled during the morning, afternoon or evening Monday to Saturday.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Who is the course for?
This course is ideal if you are interested in marketing, sales and communications or you are thinking of setting up your own business.
The course is for school leavers, mature students and graduates of QQI level 5/6 programmes who wish to embark on a course of full-time study.
CAO Points
2025 CAO Points Guide :* 250
*For each course we have given a guideline based on our points over the past 3 years. This is a guide only, points vary each year.
The CAO course code is NC020.
QQI Level 5/6 Requirements
Students must obtain a minimum of 3 distinctions and a full award and meet the CAO points requirements to apply for this Level 8 course.
Visit our
QQI Applicants
page for further information.
Free Fees
This course qualifies under the
Free Fees Initiative
and
Student Grant Scheme
.
Sports Scholarship
Did you know you can apply for a
Sports Scholarship
at NCI?
Watch this video
to hear from our current sports scholars Stephen Achukwu (basketball) and Adam Leonard (football):
International Students' Fees
Please note that effective from September 2026, the programme fee for International students is €12,000 per year.
For more information on international fees, please visit
International Fees & Funding
and
International Scholarships
.
Learn more about studying at NCI as an
international student
.
For domestic students applying through the CAO, this course applies under the free fees initiative. For further information, please see
Free Fees Initiative
.
Student Profile