ERF Recruitment Apprenticeship
National College of Ireland has partnered with the Employment and Recruitment Federation (ERF) to offer the BA (Honours) in Recruitment Practice.
Considering a Career in Recruitment?
The BA (Honours) in Recruitment Practice is a new three-year apprenticeship degree which allows you to work 4 days a week as a Recruitment Executive and attend virtual or on-campus classes at NCI 1 day a week in order to gain this specialised qualification.
ERF Recruitment Apprenticeship at NCI
This programme is the first of its kind in Ireland and there are no other Level 8 degrees in recruitment or qualifications in recruitment that are on the National Framework of Qualifications. The programme will provide an alternative talent pipeline to the recruitment industry and offer a new career path for candidates.
BA (Honours) in Recruitment Practice
The course is open to mature students, school leavers, current recruiters and anyone looking for a career change.
Visit the course page for more information.
Read Course Information
Employers & Workplace Mentors
Employers will appoint an experienced recruitment professional with at least 3 years of professional practice as a Workplace Mentor.
For employers interested in participating, visit the Employment and Recruitment Federation website for further information.
ERF Website
Explore ERF Recruitment Apprenticeship Resources
ERF Recruitment Apprenticeship Timetables
Students completing the ERF Recruitment Apprenticeship programme with NCI can find their timetable information here.
Financial Services Apprenticeship
The International Financial Services Apprenticeships at National College of Ireland offer a unique way to start a career or upskill in the financial services sector.
Apprenticeship Courses
Visit our apprenticeship course pages for a description of each of our apprenticeships and information on the course content, entry requirements and application process.
Get in Touch
If you have questions about becoming a Recruitment Executive apprentice or an Employer/Workplace Mentor, get in touch with Janice O'Rourke by emailing janice@erfireland.com.
Contact Details