MSc in Artificial Intelligence for Business
Course Instance ID:
909429042
Description:
MSc in Artificial Intelligence for Business
Duration:
1 year
NFQ Level:
Level 9
Brochure:
Download MSc in Artificial Intelligence for Business brochure
The overall goal of the MSc in AI for Business is to produce high-quality, technically competent, and innovative graduates with essential knowledge to understand the impacts, design, application, and operationalisation of AI solutions in business contexts.
The MSc in AI for Business contains modules that aim to provide learners with a high level of AI knowledge, understanding the impacts of human factors and engagement in AI, and understanding the operationalisation and application of AI.
The programme also includes a final supervised research project, the theme of which requires the formulation of a business strategy that could be applied in industry. Through the supervised projects, the learners will be able to perform independent research that puts them into a position to make informed and critical decisions regarding the use of AI technologies in a business context.
Location
Start Date
IFSC Campus
14/09/2026
Apply Now
Course details
About this Course
The course will be delivered using academic research, industry defined practical problems, and case studies and by faculty, industry practitioners, business strategists with proven expertise in AI and its applications in business. This approach will naturally provide a deeper knowledge of AI for business and create skills required in industry such as critical thinking, problem-solving, creative thinking, communication, teamwork and research skills.
Upon completion of this course, graduates will be able to:
Demonstrate a critical understanding of the use of Artificial Intelligence in business contexts.
Formulate, design, assess, and implement AI-enabled business strategies based on the latest industry practices and standards to enhance human potential and customer support.
Select and employ advanced and emerging Artificial Intelligence techniques and tools to enhance business decision making.
Synthesise and communicate the opportunity of Artificial Intelligence to enhance the business strategy to key stakeholders.
Critically assess and evaluate ethical, sustainable, and responsible risks and impacts associated with Artificial Intelligence solutions in business contexts.
Conduct independent research on the impact of Artificial Intelligence in a business context.
Who is the course for?
MSc in AI for Business aims to produce high-quality, competent, innovative graduates that will become leading strategists in the field of AI.  This course is for graduates who have problem-solving skills and learners from industry who want to properly upskill and prepare themselves for the AI-enabled world of today.
Course Content
Core Modules
Data Governance, Ethics and Sustainability
Principles of Artificial Intelligence
AI Technologies
Strategic AI for Business and Leadership
AI for Society and Enterprise
Customer Experience and Product Management
Generative AI for Business
Explainable and Emerging AI Technologies
Research Elective
Practicum OR
Internship
Elective modules are subject to availability and a minimum number of students required to run a module.
Assessment
The course will be assessed with a blend of project work and exams. This varies between modules but typically assessment is 50% continuous assessment and 50% exam.
For more information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Award and Progression
The Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence for Business is awarded by QQI at level 9 on the National Framework of Qualifications. Students who successfully complete this course may progress to a major award at level 10 on the NFQ. Students may also elect to exit early with the Postgraduate Diploma in Science in Artificial Intelligence for Business at level 9 on the NFQ.
Potential recruiters include corporate companies and research labs who are the providers of AI-enabled solutions of today’s real-world problems such as Microsoft, Huawei, LinkedIn and Citi Bank.
Entry Requirements
Applicants are required to hold a minimum of a Level 8 honours qualification (2.2 or higher) or equivalent on the National Qualifications Framework in either STEM (e.g., Information Management Systems, Information Technologies, Computer Science, Computer Engineer) or Business (e.g., Business Information Systems, Business Administration, Economics) discipline and a minimum of three years of relevant work experience in industry, ideally but not necessarily, in management.
Non-English-speaking applicants
must demonstrate fluency in the English language as demonstrated by an IELTS academic score of at least 6.5 or equivalent.
For international students, please visit NCI's
Your Country
section to view the specific entry requirements for your region.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Indicative Schedule
Students need to be available 09.00-18.00 Mon – Fri (class days and times vary).
Please note that in some instances exams may take place in the daytime, evening, and/or at weekends.
Course Delivery
Campus – Classes will take place face-to-face on campus.
Duration
This course runs over 1 year; 3 semesters with an internship/practicum.
Course Fee
€7,000 total fee
(EU/Ireland applicants, fees revised annually)
You can spread the cost of this course with a
direct debit plan
.
NCI Scholarships
We offer a range of scholarships and discounts for both NCI and non-NCI graduates. Current NCI students and alumni can avail of a 25% discount on this course by applying for our Master's Edge Scholarship.
View our full list of
scholarships
.
International Students' Fees
The course fee for international students is €17,000.
Fees will be revised annually.
For more information on international fees, please visit
International Fees & Funding
and
International Scholarships
.
Learn more about studying at NCI as an
international student
.
Student Profile