Postgraduate Diploma in Arts in Educational Practice in Teaching for Further Education
Course Instance ID:
888611790
Description:
Postgraduate Diploma in Arts in Educational Practice in Teaching for Further Education
Duration:
1 year
NFQ Level:
Level 9
Brochure:
Download Postgraduate Diploma in Arts in Educational Practice in Teaching for Further Education brochure
This course is specially designed and developed to meet the needs of learning professionals in the further education sector. In particular, the course addresses the needs of those educators requiring Teaching Council of Ireland accreditation for working in further education contexts.
The Postgraduate Diploma in Educational Practice in Teaching for Further Education is an intensive evening programme with a requirement for extensive daytime placement practice, designed to provide the necessary knowledge, skills, and competencies to enhance your teaching in further education institutions.
This course is focused on the development of your knowledge, skills and competence in educational theory, as well as your ability to apply this theory to pedagogic design and professional development. This course is delivered in the evenings to accommodate students’ placement work.
Course details
About this Course
The course focuses on developing self-awareness as well as the competence to facilitate the development of individuals in a range of further education contexts by, for example, the application of new technologies to instruction, the use of strategies to support learning, and the creation of valuable and effective assessments.
The course will use a variety of participative teaching approaches. You will be encouraged to enquire, question and critique modern conceptions of how we learn and how we can bring about learning in others.
You will be expected to complete practical assignments and to build your skills as an educator, including undertaking a placement in host FE colleges or centres.
Who is the course for?
The Postgraduate Diploma in Arts in Educational Practice in Teaching for Further Education is specifically designed as an accredited further education teacher education qualification recognised by the Teaching Council of Ireland.
The course is suitable for those intending to pursue a career in teaching in the further education sector. Route 3 (Further Education) of the Teaching Council Regulations (2016) deals with teacher registration for the further education sector. This regulation includes a requirement, with effect from 01 April 2013, for applicants for registration to have attained, inter alia, a Council-approved further education teacher education qualification. Applicants should also consult the
Teaching Council website
for the complete set of requirements under Route 3.
Course Content
Theories of Learning and Teaching
Contemporary and Enduring Questions in Education
Strategies of Learning and Teaching
Educational Practice for Diversity and Inclusion
Practicum in Teaching for Further Education
Technology Enhanced Learning
Educational Assessment and Feedback
For information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Please view the
Placement Booklet
for further information on workplace placement for this course.
Award and Progression
The Postgraduate Diploma in Arts in Educational Practice in Teaching for Further Education is awarded by QQI at level 9 on the National Framework of Qualifications. Students will also receive a teacher education qualification accredited by the Teaching Council of Ireland and entry to the Register of Teachers in the further education sector in Ireland.
You may also choose to undertake further study involving an additional 30 ECTS credits with modules on research skills and completion of a dissertation. On completion of this, you will receive the award of
Master of Arts in Educational Practice
.
Entry Requirements
Applicants holding an Honours Degree 2.2 (Level 8) in any discipline ideally with professional involvement in the facilitation of learning or training will be considered for the course.
The College operates a
Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL)
scheme meaning applicants who do not meet the normal academic requirements may be considered based on relevant work and other experience.
All applicants will be interviewed by the Programme Director or a member of the programme team.
Non-English speaking applicants must demonstrate fluency in the English language. Visit our
English Language Requirements
page for further information.
Garda Vetting
Incoming students for the Postgraduate Diploma in Educational Practice in Teaching for Further Education course must undergo Garda Vetting. The completed
Vetting Invitation Form (NVB1)
and supporting documentation must be submitted as soon as an application is completed. Download our
Guidelines on the Garda Vetting Process
for further information.
Garda Vetting is part of the admissions process. Garda Vetting applications must be submitted to NCI prior to commencing the programme. Guidelines on this process is provided by admissions.
Note: Students will not be permitted to begin their placement until their vetting application is processed and approved in accordance with NCI’s Student Vetting policy.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Indicative Schedule
Tuesday and Thursday 18.30 - 21.30 livestream and some Saturdays 09.30 - 13.30 on campus.
An additional and separate class group of this programme may be offered via the following
schedule: Wednesday 14.00-17.00 on campus, Friday 14.00-17.00 livestream, and some Saturdays
09.30 - 13.30 on campus. This is subject to sufficient numbers.
Course Delivery
Blended – Livestream (online) classes with some campus classes and some in-person exams, scheduled in advance.
Duration
This course runs over 1 year.
Course Fee
€5,200 total fee.
(Fees revised annually)
You can spread the cost of this course with a
direct debit plan
.
Scholarships and Discounts
We offer a range of
scholarship opportunities and discount offers
available to both NCI and non-NCI graduates that will help you access this course.
Student Profile