BA (Honours) in Business Management
Course Instance ID:
507823399
Description:
BA (Honours) in Business Management
Duration:
3 stages over 2 years
NFQ Level:
Level 8
Brochure:
Download BA (Honours) in Business Management brochure
This honours degree programme will give you the knowledge and skills required for all areas of business management. You will cover all the latest thinking and how it contributes to organisational success. You will gain an in-depth knowledge of a wide range of management and general business issues, theory, practice, and development. You will also learn to appreciate wider factors impacting business decision making such as the organisation culture, entrepreneurship and the external economic environment.
Students come from a variety of organisations and the course helps you understand the implications of different business contexts and varied stakeholders on the management of business.
This course is delivered in 3 stages over 2 years.
Course details
About this Course
The course will progress you through an in-depth knowledge of business management from its basic operational foundations to the more strategic level, and inform you of emerging new issues in this sphere.
Our experienced faculty and the block delivery nature of the programme enables the course to offer you an interesting range of business assignments that will see you critically assessing approaches taken in work examples and case studies. This emphasis on practical assignments together with expert industry guest lecturers and a range of online materials will make for a fulfilling learning experience.
Assistant Professor Dave Cormack, Programme Director of the BA (Hons) in Business Management, discusses the structure and benefits of undertaking this course here:
Who is the course for?
This part-time course is aimed at people working in business and management areas or intending to move into them.
Course Content
Stage 1
Block 1
Business Management Practice
Leadership and Influencing
Working with People
Block 2
Aspects of Business Law
Financial Accounting
Economics of the World
Business Communication
Stage 2
Block 1
HRM in the Business Framework
Business Economics
Marketing
Introduction to Business Statistics and Analytics
Block 2
Business Statistics and Analytics for Decision Making
Essentials of Employment Law
Management Accounting
Technology for Business
Stage 3
Block 1
Entrepreneurship
Strategic Management
Economic and Social Policy
Block 2
Change Management
Project Management
Sustainability and Business Ethics
This course is delivered with online lectures and online learning materials and, subject to guidelines, supported by classroom-based learning events. This gives students the opportunity to meet up in the college and speak directly with lecturers and fellow learners.
For more information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
How is the course delivered?
This course is designed to radically change the experience of part-time study, with the learner no longer bound to traditional academic semesters that are more suited to full-time students
The course is delivered over three stages with each stage consisting of a block of 11 to 13 weeks with a short break built in after completion of each block and over the summer period. Submission deadlines and exams may fall within the break period.
This course is supported with online materials that supplement classroom-based lectures. This gives students the opportunity to meet-up in the college and speak directly with lecturers.
Typically the schedule would be:
Stage 1
Block One
September to mid-December 2026
Break
Block Two
Mid-January to mid-late April 2027
Break
Stage 2
Block Three
Mid-May to end of July 2027/beginning of August
Break
Block Four
Mid-September to mid-December 2027
Break
Stage 3
Block Five
Mid-January to end-April 2028
Break
Block Six
May to August 2028
Course Delivery
Blended:
Online with some face-to-face classes.
Entry Requirements
The course is designed to appeal to those at work or seeking to re-enter the workforce. There are no specific academic requirements with applicants considered based on work and other experience. Applicants under 21 will be assessed based on Leaving Certificate or equivalent.
For applicants whose first language is not English, please note the
English language entry requirements
.
Note that applicants with a Certificate in First Line Management or a Certificate in Retail Management will get exemptions from some modules in stage 1. Applicants who have previously completed a Higher Certificate in Management may in some circumstances be eligible to enter the programme at Stage 2.
Any applicant with substantial experience may be eligible for module exemptions, you can apply by showing evidence of prior learning based on your employment experience.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Award and Progression
This programme is designed to offer learners the maximum of flexibility with different entry and exit points and awards. This allows learners to stage their studies as suits them best.
The full Bachelor of Arts Honours in Business Management is awarded by QQI at level 8 on the National Framework of Qualifications. This award will allow progression to level 9 courses on the NFQ such as NCI’s part-time
MSc in Management
or
MA in Human Resource Management
.
However, students may exit after completing stage 1 (60 credits) and receive a Certificate in Business Management at level 6, or after completing stage 2 (120 credits) and receive a Diploma in Business Management at level 7 awarded by QQI on the NFQ. I
If you exit with a minor award you can still return later to finish the whole degree – you set the pace.
Duration
3 stages over 2 years.
Indicative Schedule
Two evenings per week plus some Saturdays 09.00-17.00
Please note that exams can be scheduled during the morning, afternoon or evening Monday to Saturday. Exams may take the form of online or in person.
Course Fee
The cost of this course is €4,250 per stage.
Full degree encompasses 3 stages, total fee is €12,750.
(Fees revised annually)
You can spread the cost of this course with a
direct debit plan
.
Scholarships and Discounts
We offer a range of
scholarship opportunities and discount offers
available to both NCI and non-NCI graduates that will help you access this course.
Student Profile