Computing Courses
We offer a variety of computing courses at National College of Ireland in areas such as Artificial Intelligence, Cybersecurity, Data Analytics and Fintech at both undergraduate and postgraduate level.
Studying Computing at National College of Ireland
NCI's School of Computing takes pride in the delivery of courses using innovative educational strategies. The programmes give students the opportunity to learn about the latest technologies and to gain hands-on practical experience, resulting in the College producing exceptional computing graduates.
Established over 20 years ago, the School continues to respond to the developments in IT, computing and technology by actively addressing the skills gap in emerging technologies. New courses specialising in fields such as artificial intelligence have been announced while existing courses are continually evolving thanks to our expert academic team.
Explore the range of computing courses available at NCI below.
Computing Subject Areas
Data Analytics Courses
Gain expert knowledge and improve your employability by studying data analytics at National College of Ireland.
Cybersecurity Courses
Develop world-class skills and detailed knowledge of cybersecurity with one of these specialised courses.
Artificial Intelligence Courses
Innovative courses in the growing artificial intelligence field delivered by our expert academic team.
Cloud Computing Courses
Studying cloud computing at NCI will provide you with the latest knowledge and competencies required to become an expert in this fast growing industry.
Fintech Courses
Join the fintech revolution and future-proof your career by studying one of our innovative courses focusing the opportunities within the financial technology sector.
Other Computing Courses
You have the option to choose other computing courses in areas such as software development, blockchain, data governance and technology management.
All Computing Courses
Computing Course Types
Undergraduate Computing Courses
This is where you will find our computing and technology courses that will help you get the best start in your career. School leavers, mature students and QQI applicants are welcome to apply for these courses.
Higher Diploma Courses
Our specialised higher diplomas allow applicants with non-technical degrees the opportunity to transition into a career working in tech after completing one of these 1 year programmes.
Postgraduate Computing Courses
Take your career to the next level by gaining a postgraduate qualification in a specialised computing area from National College of Ireland. Choose to study part-time over 2 years or full-time over 1 year.
All Computing Courses
School of Computing
Learn more about NCI's School of Computing including the International Advisory Board members and recent research conducted.
View Here