MSc in Management
Course Instance ID:
447741659
Description:
MSc in Management
Duration:
1 year
NFQ Level:
Level 9
Brochure:
Download MSc in Management brochure
The MSc in Management has been developed to satisfy the demand for courses that combine a strong theoretical foundation with a firm focus on practical application. You will be exposed to the most current schools of thought in disciplines such as international business, finance, marketing, entrepreneurship and strategy.
Location
Start Date
IFSC Campus
14/09/2026
Apply Now
Course details
About this Course
The course provides a series of elective modules for students to explore other areas of interest or to emphasise their development in a specific area of their choice. Development of effective managerial skills, which include analytical problem solving, decision-making, effective communication and leadership, is encouraged throughout the course
Such skills provide strong tools which can be applied in real day-to-day management situations and serve graduates to aim at higher management positions within the organisation.
Block teaching is used to provide the opportunity for more in-depth development of knowledge within modules. An applied approach to teaching is used within the programme with lectures interspersed with exercises, use of case study analysis, group activities in class, debate on contemporary issues as well as independent learning
Course Content
Core Modules
Business Models, Strategy and Tactics
Financial Management
Marketing in the Global Environment
Leading, Managing and Planning in Organisations
Economics for Management
International Business
Research Methods
Dissertation
Elective Modules
Commercial Law
Corporate Governance, Business Ethics and CSR
Contemporary Issues in Global Finance
Business Intelligence
Entrepreneurship
Strategic Management of Human Capital
Employment Law
Sustainable Business Leadership
Doing Business on the Cloud
Strategic Project Management
Management in Postmodern Markets
Availability of elective choices is subject to student numbers. The course content as shown above is for indicative purposes. The college reserves the right to re-order the schedule of modules offered. Note that all modules count towards the final award classification.
For more information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Who is the course for?
The course is aimed at anyone following a career path which requires them to step into middle to top management positions. Additionally, the course can provide a transition stage for graduates from other disciplines who wish to move into the management arena either as practitioners, researchers or consultants.
Award and Progression
The MSc in Management course is awarded by QQI at level 9 on the National Framework of Qualifications. This award will allow transfer to level 9 research degrees and in some cases progression to taught doctoral courses at level 10 on the NFQ.
Entry Requirements
Applicants are required to hold a minimum of a 2.2 honours degree in either a cognate or non-cognate area at level 8 on the National Framework of Qualifications.
For applicants whose first language is not English, please note the
English language entry requirements
.
For international students, please visit NCI's
Your Country
section to view the specific entry requirements for your region.
The college operates a
Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL)
scheme meaning non-graduates with extensive professional experience and other prior qualifications may also be considered for the course.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Course Delivery
On-campus face-to-face classes.
Indicative Schedule
Students need to be available 09.00-17.00 Monday - Friday. Full-time students may also be required to attend classes after 5pm
(class days and times vary).
Please note that exams can be scheduled during the morning, afternoon or evening Monday to Saturday.
Duration
September Starts
1 year taught plus a final dissertation: 2 semesters (Sep-Dec and Jan-May), dissertation due in August
January Starts
(where available and subject to numbers) 1 year taught plus a final dissertation: 2 semesters (Jan-May and Sep-Dec), dissertation due in May the following year and graduation in November.
Course Fee
The cost of this course is €8,500.
(EU/Ireland applicants, fees revised annually)
You can spread the cost of this course with a
direct debit plan
.
NCI Scholarships
We offer a range of scholarships and discounts for both NCI and non-NCI graduates. Current NCI students and alumni can avail of a 25% discount on this course by applying for our Master's Edge Scholarship.
View our full list of
scholarships
.
International Students' Fees
The course fee for international students is €17,000.
Fees will be revised annually.
For more information on international fees, please visit
International Fees & Funding
and
International Scholarships
.
Learn more about studying at NCI as an
international student
.
Student Profile
'Coming from a different country it can be initially difficult to settle in but the lecturers really helped me adjust to my new environment.'
Studying at NCI was one of the best decisions I have ever taken. Coming from a different country it can be initially difficult to settle in but the lecturers really helped me adjust to my new environment. I would definitely recommend NCI to anyone that is considering studying a part-time or full-time course because the kind of practical knowledge that NCI provides is excellent.
Ambily Jose