Human Resource Management Courses
Become a certified expert in human resource management with NCI, an institution which has a deep history of educating students in this field.
Find a course
Studying Human Resource Management at NCI
National College of Ireland has a long-established track record in human resource management and our graduates are highly regarded by employers.
NCI's partnership with the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) ensures that graduates are highly qualified HR professionals with an accredited qualification and access to member benefits and learning resources. Whether you are beginning your third-level studies, continuing your education or transitioning into a new career, NCI offers a course in human resource management that will meet your requirements.
Visit the course pages to learn how to apply.
Postgraduate Programmes in Human Resource Management
Advance your HRM studies beyond undergraduate level with options to study postgraduate programmes either part-time with evening classes mostly delivered online, or full-time with a mix of virtual and campus classes.
Postgraduate Diploma in Arts in Human Resource Management
This course is aimed at individuals seeking an academic qualification at postgraduate level while also wishing to advance their career to assume positions at a senior management level with a specific focus on HRM.
1 Year | Level 9 | Part-Time | Blended
See Course Details
MA in Human Resource Management - Part-Time
Students who complete the Postgraduate Diploma in Arts in Human Resource Management can continue their studies to receive the award of Master of Arts in Human Resource Management.
2 Years | Level 9 | Part-Time | Blended
See Course Details
MA in Human Resource Management - Full-Time
Developed in consultation with the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD), this programme aims to develop an in-depth understanding of the core disciplines in the area of human resources.
1 Year | Level 9 | Full-Time | On-Campus
See Course Details
Useful Resources
How to Apply
Upcoming Events
FAQs
Contact Us
CIPD Courses in Human Resource Management
The Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) is the professional body for HR and people development in Ireland. NCI has partnered with CIPD to deliver accredited courses in this field.
(CIPD) Diploma in Professional Human Resource Practice
This programme is ideal for those working in HR, wishing to develop a HR career or managers wanting a better knowledge of people management..
1 Year | Part-Time | Blended & Online Options
See Course Details
(CIPD) Certificate in Professional Human Resource Practice
This course is designed to appeal to those working in human resources, managing large teams of people or seeking to make a career change into HR.
1 Year | Part-Time | Blended
See Course Details
Certificate in Professional Employment Law & Practice
This certificate will give learners the skills and knowledge needed in managing difficult employment situations at work and changing the working climate.
16 weeks | Part-Time | Blended
See Course Details
(CIPD) Diploma in Professional Learning & Organisational Development
This programme covers Learning Design, Facilitation and Digital & Blended Learning for all those involved in the development of people.
1 Year | Part-Time | Blended
See Course Details
(CIPD) Certificate in Professional Learning & Organisational Development
The programme is for those involved in training, learning, organisational development and talent development in organisations or those wishing to move into that career.
1 Year | Part-Time | Blended
See Course Details
Undergraduate Programmes in Human Resource Management
Whether you're returning to education to study part-time or continuing your studies from second-level, you can choose the undergraduate degree that suits your needs at NCI.
BA (Honours) in HRM Strategy and Practice - Part-Time
This course is designed to suit the needs of part-time students who require an undergraduate Human Resource Management qualification while also gaining CIPD accreditation to work or move into this area.
2 Years | Level 8 | Part-Time | Blended
See Course Details
BA (Honours) in Human Resource Management - Full-Time
This degree draws on NCI’s 70 years as the leading educational institution for human resource management with world-class faculty and industry links leading to a comprehensive learning experience.
3 Years | Level 8 | Full-Time | NC005
See Course Details
Get in Touch
If you have any questions about our human resource management courses, get in touch with our Admissions Team by emailing admissions@ncirl.ie.
Contact Us