Student Assistance Fund
About The Student Assistance Fund
The Student Assistance Fund is managed by the Higher Education Authority on behalf of the Department of Further and Higher Education, Research, Innovation and Science.
The purpose of the Student Assistance Fund (SAF) is to provide financial support to disadvantaged students with ongoing needs for financial support and to provide emergency financial assistance for other students.
Eligibility criteria changes from year to year, therefore, eligibility in previous years does not guarantee that you are eligible in this current academic year. Students' financial status at the time of their application is also taken into account, so being funded in Semester 1 does not guarantee that you will be funded in subsequent semesters.
As this is an EU-funded initiative, only EU citizens or those who have been deemed eligible for the
Free Fees Initiative
may apply; international students are not eligible.
The Student Assistance Fund is managed by the Higher Education Authority on behalf of the Department of Education and Skills.
Key Information
The main facts about applying for the Student Assistance Fund, including the documentation you need to provide as part of your application, is below.
What is the Student Assistance Fund (SAF)?
The Student Assistance Fund provides once-off (i.e. not continuous) monetary support to full- or part-time students who are experiencing financial difficulties while attending college. Students may apply once per term during their studies, and will need to make a new application with updated documentation if applying more than once per academic year.
The Student Assistance Fund is managed by the Higher Education Authority on behalf of the Department of Further and Higher Education, Research, Innovation and Science.
Who can apply?
Students who are EU citizens or have been deemed eligible for the
Free Fees Initiative
can apply for the Student Assistance Fund.
The fund is open to registered students on courses of no less than one year in duration whose course has already started. Eligible studies can receive funding a maximum of once per semester of their course.
Full-time registered students
on courses that lead to a higher education award at Level 6-10 of the national framework of qualifications can apply.
Part-time registered students
on courses that lead to a higher education award at Level 6-10 of the national framework of qualifications can apply. Part-time applicants must also be on a means-tested social welfare payment in order to be eligible.
Meeting the above criteria does not automatically deem you eligible, your financial situation will be considered upon receipt of your application.
Please note: international students are not eligible to apply for the SAF. However, they may be eligible for the
International Student Emergency Hardship Fund
What can the fund be used for?
The Student Assistance Fund assists with costs such as:
Rent
Books, materials for your course
Living expenses: food, heating, lighting
Essential transport to/from university
Medical expenses: doctor, dentist, other
Emergency: this includes bereavement, accidents, family breakdown, or other unforeseen circumstances
Childcare
Funding is NOT available to cover:
Tuition fees
Registration fees
Repeat examination fees
Student loan repayments
What documentation do I need?
You will be asked to provide supporting documentation along with the online application form. Without these, your case will not be assessed.
Students who are living with their parent(s)/guardian(s) and under 23 years of age (dependent) will need to provide the below in
both
their parent/guardian's name and their own. Students who are over 23 years of age (independent) can submit their own.
Full-time students:
Proof of the financial emergency
Proof of European citizenship for the student applying only: copy of your passport or birth certificate
Full statements for the last three months from all bank, Revolut, Credit Union, and An Post accounts in your name: these must be sent in PDF format, and must show
all
transactions during the period
Payslips if you are working, proof of seasonal work, or proof that you are not working currently
SUSI grant letter or back to Education allowance (if applicable)
Social welfare receipt (if applicable)
Recent payslips if you are working, proof of seasonal work, or proof that you are not working currently
Rent or mortgage receipt
Recent bills: electricity, heating bills or any other you think are relevant
Statements of any loans held
Part-time students:
Proof of the financial emergency
Proof of European citizenship for the student applying only: copy of your passport or birth certificate
Proof of being on means-tested social welfare
Full statements for the last three months from all bank, Revolut, Credit Union, and An Post accounts in your name: these must be sent in PDF format,
not
screenshots, and must show all transactions during the period
Payslips if you are working, proof of seasonal work, or proof that you are not working currently
Rent or mortgage receipt
Recent bills: electricity, heating bills or any other you think are relevant
Statements of any loans held
If you have additional documents you are unable to include with the online form, please send them
from your NCI student email address
to
studentassistancefund@ncirl.ie
.
How can I apply?
The SAF is currently open for applications from eligible students.
Full-time students can apply here:
Full-time applications
Part-time students can apply here:
Part-time applications
Can I appeal the outcome of my application?
Students who are not satisfied with the outcome of their application can appeal the decision with additional information and documents so that their case can be reassessed.
Students will be informed of the outcome of their appeal by email.
For all other queries relating to the Student Assistance Fund please contact
studentassistancefund@ncirl.ie
.
Frequently Asked Questions
Our FAQs provide further information on the Student Assistance Fund at NCI including the types of applications and making an appointment.
Eligibility Information
Who can apply for the Student Assistance Fund (SAF)?
All registered NCI students who are in financial distress and meet the qualifying criteria can avail of the Student Assistance Fund (SAF).
I am worried about having enough money while in college – can this service help me?
The SAF is a one-time payment that can help if you find yourself in financial difficulty while in college. If you are thinking about coming to NCI or are about to start, it can help to check out fees for your programme and general college costs. You can also review
third-level student fees and charges on the Citizens Information
website to ensure you can afford the ongoing costs of college. Contact
MABS
for free budgeting advice.
What financial assistance is there to help me pay for college?
You may qualify for the
SUSI
grant or
Back to Education Allowance (BETA)
which can help pay for your course fees. NCI also offers a number of
scholarships and discounts
.
Note:
The SAF cannot be used to pay fees nor for college loan repayments. It is a one-time payment to help with financial hardships or emergencies and is not continuous funding.
Types of Applications
What is the SAF Emergency application?
The SAF Emergency application is available to assist students who are experiencing unforeseen and immediate financial difficulties as a result of a once-off emergency event. Some of these may be homelessness, family bereavement, or sudden loss of income.
Is there any financial help available for part-time students?
Part-time students can apply for the Student Assistance Fund if they meet the criteria, which includes being in receipt of a form of means-tested social welfare.
I am a HEAR student, can I apply for the SAF?
HEAR students can apply to the main SAF bursary but only
after
they have received the special SAF HEAR payment. This also applies in Semester 2 should a top-up payment be made (top-up payments may not be made every year as this is dependent on the allocation of funds by the HEA).
After the start of the academic year, usually in October, HEAR students will receive an email asking them to fill out a form with their bank details so that they can receive this payment. This payment is determined by the amount of HEAR students and funding NCI receives, therefore it is subject to change.
If you have not received this email by the end of October, which can happen in the case students who have deferred or are repeating, please contact
studentassistancefund@ncirl.ie
with a copy of your HEAR letter/email as proof.
Is there any financial help available for students with disabilities?
All registered NCI students who are struggling financially can apply for the Student Assistance Fund (SAF).
My circumstances have changed suddenly, what can I do?
You can apply directly to the SAF for financial assistance or contact
studentassistancefund@ncirl.ie
for advice on the SAF.
Financial Help Available
Can I get help with my living expenses?
This may be possible. Please email
saf@ncirl.ie
for further information on the funding options and for advice.
Can I get help with my essential travel expenses?
The Student LEAP card is available which reduces travel costs. Other assistance for essential travel costs may be possible from SAF.
Can I get help to pay for childcare?
All college-related expenses can be considered for SAF, including childcare, so if you think you are eligible, you can apply to the SAF (read above for instructions on how to apply). You can also email
saf@ncirl.ie
for advice.
Can I get financial help for repeat exams?
None of the funding provided by the SAF can be used for the payment of fees. We may be able to help with the extra expenses related to repeat exams (e.g. loss of earnings, travel costs). You can also email
saf@ncirl.ie
for advice.
Can I get funding for a repeat year?
You may be able to apply to SUSI under Exceptional Circumstances for a repeat year, e.g. medical circumstances. You may be eligible for financial assistance during your repeat year if you meet the criteria, but the SAF cannot cover repeat tuition fees nor student loans.
Making an Appointment
How do I make an appointment to talk about the SAF if I have questions?
To make an appointment with a member of the SAF team, please email
studentassistancefund@ncirl.ie
and a team member can organise an appointment with you on Microsoft Teams.
What can I expect at a meeting?
A 10-15 minute chat giving guidance and advice. Please note that for the SAF, this will not be suitable for a full assessment for financial assistance.
Can I apply for the SAF without having had an appointment?
You do not need to meet with a member of the SAF team to apply for the SAF. You can meet if you need clarification or advice only.