Cloud Computing Courses
Develop world-class skills and detailed knowledge of cloud computing at National College of Ireland's state-of-the-art Cloud Competency Centre.
Find a course
Studying Cloud Computing at NCI
National College of Ireland's cloud computing courses will provide you with the latest knowledge and competencies required to work with the Cloud. By focusing on the structured management of cloud architectural components, you will gain experience with the latest design principles, models, and technologies in this fast growing global industry.
You will study in NCI's dedicated Cloud Competency Centre, our dedicated state-of-the-art facility that supports comprehensive evaluation, grassroots incubation, and seamless adoption of cloud technologies for didactic, commercial, and research purposes. The centre's purposeful setting fosters innovative thinking to fully harness the potential of cloud computing.
Visit the course pages to learn how to apply.
Master's Degrees in Cloud Computing
The MSc in Cloud Computing is offered both full-time and part-time. Online applications are now open, visit a course page to get started.
MSc in Cloud Computing - Part-Time
By combining technical skills with innovation principles, the MSc in Cloud Computing effectively delivers core technology skills in cloud software development, fog/edge computing, DevOps, security, and data governance.
2 Years | Level 9 | Part-Time | Blended
See Course Details
MSc in Cloud Computing - Full-Time
The MSc in Cloud Computing will appeal to computer science graduates, ICT industry practitioners, system administrators, and those with an interest in gaining practical experience in cloud computing.
1 Year | Level 9 | Full-Time | Blended
See Course Details
Useful Resources
Cloud Computing
Upcoming Events
Cloud Centre
Contact Us
Postgraduate Diploma in Cloud Computing
The Postgraduate Diploma in Cloud Computing provides students with digital skills that are up to-date and relevant to the needs of industry in cloud-related areas such as virtualisation, storage management, programming for data analytics, software development and engineering, application services, and cloud security.
Postgraduate Diploma in Cloud Computing
Upon completion of this course, graduates will be able to perform independent research that puts them into a position to make informed and critical decisions in Cloud Computing.
1 Year | Level 9 | Part-Time | Blended
See Course Details
Get in Touch
If you have any questions about our cloud computing courses, get in touch with our Admissions Team by emailing admissions@ncirl.ie.
Contact Us