Certificate in Harnessing Neurodiversity in the Modern Workplace
Course Instance ID:
1122334455
Description:
Certificate in Harnessing Neurodiversity in the Modern Workplace
Duration:
5 weeks
NFQ Level:
Level 9
At a time of major change, and a move towards programmed decisions increasingly being made by machines, leaders are presented with the opportunity to harness creativity and the input of creative individuals.
Neurodiverse individuals are renowned for creative thinking and problem-solving abilities. Enterprise is at the juncture where proactive embracing of diversity is becoming an important component of success. Where this has happened there is consistent positive feedback on increased team cohesion and overall performance.
Neurodiversity’s core idea is that these neurodevelopmental differences should be recognised and respected as a natural and essential part of human diversity. Many employers and academic studies are now recognising the range of benefits that having more neurodiversity in an organisation can bring in terms of creativity, innovation and productivity.
This 5 week, microcredential programme will allow students to learn more about neurodiversity in the workplace of today and how an organisation can harness the many benefits of this approach.
Location
Start Date
IFSC Blended Learning
21/02/2026
Apply Now
Course details
About this Course
A neurotype refers to how a person thinks about, interacts with the world, and responds to different ways of communicating, such as body language or social cues as well as to different ways of thinking. You may be familiar with different neurodevelopmental differences such as Autism, ADHD, Dyslexia, Dyspraxia, Dyscalculia, Tourette’s Syndrome and other differences.
At a time of near full employment when a different approach to work is increasingly important, creating a more diverse-accepting workplace gives the opportunity for improvement across the organisation. Managers and neurodiverse employees will both benefit from gaining a greater understanding of neurodiversity and on how to make the workplace more accommodating and ensuring the unique abilities of all employees are harnessed towards greater success.
This programme will give insight and skills to bring these advantages to your organisation or your career.
Who is this course for?
This microcredential programme is suitable for:
An individual who is working or planning to work in an organisation with a neurodiverse workforce
Employers who want to understand and access neurodiverse talent and/or harness the neurodiversity of their current workforce /li>
Individuals within the neurodiverse community seeking a greater understanding of themselves and how they can better contribute to the workplace
People with a Clinical / Psychological / Occupational Therapy background who assist people from the neurodiversity community seeking employment
Course Content
Over the duration of the course the following topics will be covered:
Introduction to Neurodiversity
Learners will be introduced to currently recognised forms of neurodiversity. These workshops will include an explanation of the diagnosis and impacts of a range of diversities and explore the historical context and evolution of neurodiversity recognition. An introductory discussion will focus on the neurological bases of neurodiversity.
Legal frameworks, rights and behaviours related to neurodiversity in the workplace
An exploration of the broader societal issues of neurodiversity such as attitudes to disability, international and national policy developments such as UNCRPD, SDGs, equality legislation and the inclusion of the voices and viewpoints of neurodiverse people.
Strengths and Contributions of Neurodiverse Individuals
How Neurodiverse individuals can be an asset in the workplace and how best to capitalise on the talents of everyone in the organisation. This segment will include developing strategies to identify and develop the unique talents of neurodiverse employees and for recruitment and retention.
Addressing Workplace Challenges Associated with Neurodiversity
Each neurodiversity presents challenges, and this section will further develop the learners' understanding of these challenges and prepare the foundation for the next section.
Inclusive Workplace Strategies
Learners will explore how to evaluate the workplace and how to plan for inclusivity of diversity to gain corporate advantage. This section will include an introduction to workplace playbooks and the development of performance indicators to measure the effectiveness of neurodiversity initiatives.
For information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Award and Progression
Graduates from the programme will receive a QQI special Purpose Award, Level 9 (10 ECTS CREDITS) Certificate in Harnessing Neurodiversity in the Modern Workplace.
Any graduates from the programme who wish to progress to a different level 9 programme which features a Harnessing Neurodiversity in the Modern Workplace module may be exempt from that module.
Indicative Schedule
The certificate will run for 5 weeks, taking place on Tuesday evenings and 2 Saturday sessions.
Date
Day
Hours
21-Feb
Saturday
09:00 to 17:00
24-Feb
Tuesday
19:00 to 21:00
03-Mar
Tuesday
19:00 to 21:00
10-Mar
Tuesday
19:00 to 21:00
17-Mar
Tuesday
Bank Holiday
24-Mar
Tuesday
19:00 to 21:00
28-Mar
Saturday
09:00 to 17:00
Entry Requirements
Typically, applicants will have completed a full level 8 degree with a 2.2 award or higher, Applicants who do not meet the above academic requirements but can provide evidence of substantial professional experience in a relevant domain may apply to the programme via the Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL) process at the National College of Ireland.
For applicants whose first language is not English, please note the
English language entry requirements
. Given the blended delivery of the programme applicants must be able to navigate a website and engage with typical, standard applications such as Microsoft Word, and PowerPoint.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Course Delivery
This programme is delivered in a blended learning format with a total of 36 hours learning delivered over 5 weeks, in addition to this the learner will be expected to engage in independent study.
The blended delivery of the programme means that a third of the coursework will be delivered online in live online lectures, another third will be delivered face to face with timetabled classes on campus at NCI and the final third delivered through recorded classes or other online learning materials that you can cover in your own schedule.
The classes will also feature a series of guest experts from industry.
Course Fee
Fees
Full course fee: €950
Contact Us
If you would like to learn more about this course, please contact Regina Dunne, Education and Training Adviser, at the following:
Email:
Regina.Dunne@ncirl.ie
.
Phone:
01 4498656
Student Profile