MA in Human Resource Management
Course Instance ID:
447739612
Description:
MA in Human Resource Management
Duration:
1 year
NFQ Level:
Level 9
Brochure:
Download MA in Human Resource Management brochure
This intensive course has been developed in consultation with the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD).
The programme aims to develop an in-depth understanding of the core disciplines in the area of human resources (HR). It recognises that HR must operate in challenging and dynamic business environments that are constantly changing, and seeks to enable students to deliver effective business solutions that optimise the people resources of their organisation.
Location
Start Date
IFSC Campus
14/09/2026
Apply Now
Course details
About this Course
Combined with a practitioner-recognised qualification in the area of HRM, namely
CIPD
, this course is geared towards people wishing to continue or progress in their professional development in HR or wider roles in the organisation.
An applied approach to teaching is used within the programme with lectures interspersed with exercises, use of case study analysis, group activities in class, debate on contemporary issues as well as independent learning.
Who is the course for?
This course is aimed primarily at individuals seeking an academic qualification at postgraduate level while also wishing to advance their career to assume positions at senior management level with a specific focus on human resource management.
Entry Requirements
Applicants are required to hold a minimum of a 2.2 honours degree in either a cognate or non-cognate area at level 8 on the National Framework of Qualifications.
For applicants whose first language is not English, please note the
English language entry requirements
.
For international students, please visit NCI's
Your Country
section to view the specific entry requirements for your region.
The college operates a
Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL)
scheme meaning non-graduates with extensive professional experience and other prior qualifications may also be considered for the course.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Award and Progression
The Master of Arts in Human Resource Management is awarded by QQI at level 9 on the National Framework of Qualifications. Graduates with relevant work experience will be eligible to apply for Chartered Membership of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) after successful completion of the first 3 semesters. A membership fee will be payable directly to CIPD.
This award will allow transfer to level 9 research degrees and in some cases progression to taught doctoral courses at level 10 on the NFQ.
Course Content
Core Modules
Leading and Managing
Human Resource Management in a Strategic Business Context
People Resourcing
Employment Law
Employee Relations
Managing and Developing Talent
Research Methods
Dissertation
Elective Modules
Organisational Design and Development (10 credits)
Mediation and Conflict Management (10 credits)
Strategic Reward Management (10 credits)
International HRM (5 credits)
HR Analytics (5 credits)
The Science of Decision Making (5 credits)
Learners are required to choose one 10-credit and one 5-credit elective from the suite of electives offered above.
The course content as shown above is for indicative purposes. The college reserves the right to re-order the schedule of modules offered.
Note:
all modules count towards the final award classification. Elective modules are subject to availability and a minimum number of students required to run a module.
For more information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Indicative Schedule
Students need to be available 09.00-21.00 Monday - Friday (Class days and times vary). Occasional evening/weekend classes wil also be scheduled.
Please note that exams can be scheduled during the morning, afternoon or evening Monday to Saturday.
Course Delivery
On-campus face-to-face classes.
Duration
September Starts
1 year taught plus a final dissertation: 2 semesters (Sep-Dec and Jan-May), dissertation due in August
January Starts
(where available and subject to numbers) 1 year taught plus a final dissertation: 2 semesters (Jan-May and Sep-Dec), dissertation due in May the following year and graduation in November.
Course Fee
The cost of this course is €8,500 total fee.
(EU/Ireland applicants, fees revised annually)
You can spread the cost of this course with a
direct debit plan
.
NCI Scholarships
We offer a range of scholarships and discounts for both NCI and non-NCI graduates. Current NCI students and alumni can avail of a 25% discount on this course by applying for our Master's Edge Scholarship.
View our full list of
scholarships
.
International Students' Fees
The course fee for international students is €17,000. Fees will be revised annually.
For more information on international fees, please visit
International Fees & Funding
and
International Scholarships
.
Learn more about studying at NCI as an
international student
.
Student Profile