MSc in Data Analytics
Course Instance ID:
479349288
Description:
MSc in Data Analytics
Duration:
1 year
NFQ Level:
Level 9
Brochure:
Download MSc in Data Analytics brochure
The overall goal of the MSc in Data Analytics programme is to provide graduates with essential research and development skills in Data Analytics. It is envisaged that graduates from this programme will be well equipped to perform independent research that enables them to make informed and critical decisions regarding requirements elicitation and analysis, implementation, evaluation, and documentation in Data Analytics.
Furthermore, the programme seeks to produce graduates who are able to provide insight, gain value and discover knowledge (at an organisational, societal, or personal level) from data through exercising the skills that are developed through the programmes.
Location
Start Date
IFSC Campus
14/09/2026
Apply Now
Course details
About this Course
The course structure accommodates a wide audience of learners whose specific interests in data analytics may be either technically focused or business focused.
The course will be delivered using academic research, industry defined practical problems, and case studies. This approach will naturally foster a deeper knowledge of the subject area and create transferable skills for work such as critical thinking, problem solving, creative thinking, communication, teamwork, and research skills. The course is completely delivered by faculty and industry practitioners with proven expertise in data analytics.
Upon completion of this course, graduates will be able to:
Conduct substantial and extensive independent research and analysis in the field of Data Analytics.
Formulate and implement a novel research idea using the latest industry practices.
Demonstrate expert knowledge and a critical understanding of data analysis, statistics, and the tools, techniques and technologies of Data Analytics utilised in both technical and business contexts.
Critically assess, evaluate and communicate business & technical strategies for Data Analytics.
Formulate, design, assess, and implement effective business & technical solutions for Data Analytics.
Critically assess and evaluate security, privacy, sustainability, and ethical issues associated with the storage, transfer, and processing of data for analytical purposes.
Who is the course for?
This course is ideal for graduates that are looking to progress into the emerging data analytics market to increase their employment potential. The course is suitable for graduates who have technical or mathematical problem-solving skills.
Graduates from disciplines that have not developed these skills will need to be able to demonstrate an aptitude for technical or mathematical problem solving.
Course Content
Core Modules
Statistics and Optimisation
Data Mining and Machine Learning
Analytics Programming and Data Visualisation
Data Governance, Ethics and Sustainability
Deep Learning and Generative AI
Research Elective
Research Practicum OR
Internship
In addition, there is a choice of two further electives from a set of three elective modules.
Elective Choices
Data Intensive Scalable Systems
Modelling and Simulation
Domain Applications
For the MSc in Data Analytics running in full-time delivery over three semesters, learners choose one of the elective modules in semester 2, and one of the remaining two elective modules in semester 3. For the MSc in Data Analytics running in part-time delivery over four semesters, learners choose two of the three ECTS elective modules in semester 3. Electives will be chosen in advance of the semester starting.
Elective modules are subject to availability and a minimum number of students required to run a module.
Assessment
The course will be assessed with a blend of project work and exams. This varies between modules but typically assessment is 50% continuous assessment and 50% exam.
For information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Award and Progression
The Master of Science in Data Analytics is awarded by QQI at level 9 on the National Framework of Qualifications. Students who successfully complete this course may progress to a major award at level 10 on the NFQ. Students may also elect to exit early with the Postgraduate Diploma in Science in Data Analytics at level 9 on the NFQ.
Entry Requirements
A minimum of a level 8 honours qualification (2.2 or higher) or equivalent on the National Qualifications Framework in a cognate discipline. Given the target technical market for graduates of this programme, candidates will be required to demonstrate technical or mathematical problemsolving skills as part of previous programme learning. Standard applicants for the programme are those holders of technical, numerate degrees.
Graduates from disciplines which do not have technical or mathematical problem-solving skills embedded in their programme will need to be able to demonstrate technical or mathematical problem-solving skills in addition to their level 8 programme qualifications (Certifications, Additional Qualifications, Certified Experience and Assessment Tests). All applicants for the programme must provide evidence that they have prior programming experience (e.g., via academic transcripts or recognised certification).
For candidates who do not have a level 8 qualification, the college operates a
Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL)
scheme meaning applicants  who do not meet the normal academic entry requirements, may be considered based on relevant work or other experience.
Non-English speaking applicants must demonstrate fluency in the English language as demonstrated by an IELTS academic score of at least 6.0 or equivalent. Visit our
English Language Requirements
page for further information.
For international students, please visit NCI's
Your Country
section to view the specific entry requirements for your region.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Indicative Schedule
Students need to be available 09.00-18.00 Mon – Fri (class days and times vary).
Please note that in some instances exams may take place in the daytime, evening, and/or at weekends.
Course Delivery
Campus – Classes will take place face-to-face on campus.
Duration
1 year; 3 semesters with a practicum or internship.
Course Fee
€7,000 total fee
(EU/Ireland applicants, fees revised annually)
You can spread the cost of this course with a
direct debit plan
.
NCI Scholarships
We offer a range of scholarships and discounts for both NCI and non-NCI graduates. Current NCI students and alumni can avail of a 25% discount on this course by applying for our Master's Edge Scholarship.
View our full list of
scholarships
.
International Students' Fees
The course fee for international students is €17,000.
Fees will be revised annually.
For more information on international fees, please visit
International Fees & Funding
and
International Scholarships
.
Learn more about studying at NCI as an
international student
.
Student Profile