Higher Certificate in Computing
Course Instance ID:
479898742
Description:
Higher Certificate in Computing
Duration:
2 years
NFQ Level:
Level 6
Brochure:
Download Higher Certificate in Computing brochure
NCI’s Higher Certificate in Computing is an ideal starting point to your studies as it offers a clear path into the computing degrees at NCI and other institutions. This full-time course will provide you with all the skills you need to pursue a career in the Information and Communications Technology industry.
CAO Course Code:
NC102
International Students
If you are an international student interested in applying for this programme, please click on the link below:
September 2026 - Apply Here
Course details
About this Course
Graduates of this course understand the essentials of information technology and software development, can design and create fully functioning websites as well as multimedia applications, are able to install and configure software and hardware, have a detailed knowledge of the theory and practice of application development and support including the essentials of hardware, software, operating systems and databases.
CAO Open Day Events
Join us at one of our CAO Open Day events for Leaving Certificate students where you will be able to chat with our lecturers and talk to students about their course experiences.
Wednesday, May 13th 2026 - Register Here
Saturday, June 27th 2026 - Register Here
Course Structure and Award
This two-year higher certificate course is run over four semesters with continuous assessment held throughout the course and examinations at the end of each semester. On completion, you will receive a QQI Higher Certificate in Computing at level 6 on the National Framework of Qualifications. The course also prepares students for industry-recognised certificates in leading technologies.
Course Content
Year 1
Semester 1
Discrete Mathematics
Programming Concepts
Web Design & Development
Introduction to Data Science & Artificial Intelligence
Computational Thinking
Semester 2
Computer Architecture
The Computing Industry
Introduction to Programming
Introduction to Data Modelling and Databases
Operating Systems
Year 2
Semester 1
Data Communications and Networking
Object Oriented Programming
Web Application Development
Advanced Databases
Data Programming
Semester 2
Innovation and Business Entrepreneurship
Software Engineering
Software Quality and Testing
Data Structures & Algorithms
Team Project
For information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Career Prospects
There has been significant growth in information technology in Ireland and there is a current shortage of IT graduates. This course will equip you with the technical knowledge to build a successful career in information technology, specifically in a technical support role.
Further Study Options
Upon successful completion of the Higher Certificate in Computing, graduates can gain entry into year three of the
BSc (Honours) in Computing
at National College of Ireland (subject to availability of places).
Who is the course for?
This course will be particularly appealing to students who are unsure about enrolling in a degree programme initially and see the higher certificate as a progression route to a degree at a later stage. The course is for school leavers, mature students and graduates of QQI level 5/6 programmes.
Minimum Entry Requirements
Minimum entry requirements are a grade O6/H7 or above in five subjects. A minimum of grade O6/H7 must be obtained in English or Irish. A grade O6/H7 must be obtained in Mathematics.
For applicants whose first language is not English, please note the
English language entry requirements
.
Mature applicants
, applicants with a disability or those applying through the
DARE
or
HEAR
access schemes can find out more information on the
application process
. Applicants under 21 will be assessed based on Leaving Certificate or equivalent.
Please note that exams can be scheduled during the morning, afternoon or evening Monday to Saturday.
Free Fees
This course qualifies under the
Free Fees Initiative
and
Student Grant Scheme
.
Laptop Requirements
While access to a suitable PC or laptop is recommended for all students, it is not required for full-time students on this programme to bring their own device as all classes will be scheduled in rooms with PC's. To successfully participate it is advisable to have access to a computer/laptop at home.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
CAO Points
2024 CAO Points Guide :* 225
*For each course we have given a guideline based on our points over the past 3 years. This is a guide only, points vary each year.
The CAO course code is NC102.
QQI Level 5/6 Applicants
Students must obtain a minimum of 5 passes and a full award and meet the CAO points requirements to apply for this Level 6 course.
Visit our
QQI Applicants
page for further information.
International Student's Fees
The fee for this course for international students is €14,000. For more information on international fees, please visit
International Fees & Funding
and
International Scholarships
.
Learn more about studying at NCI as an
international student
.
Student Profile