MSc in Entrepreneurship
Course Instance ID:
479344701
Description:
MSc in Entrepreneurship
Duration:
1 year
NFQ Level:
Level 9
Brochure:
Download MSc in Entrepreneurship brochure
The MSc in Entrepreneurship will provide you with a critical insight into entrepreneurship through a deep exploration of the stages of creativity, innovation and enterprise. Moreover, the course will provide an important recognition of  individuals who build and create a culture for enterprise but also make an impact in the world through the practice of entrepreneurship.
The course will allow you to develop an advanced understanding of the management function across a broad range of business disciplines including  business and innovation management, strategy and leadership, global marketing, technology, finance and law, providing you with the ability to analyse and critically evaluate management theory and practice.
Course details
Who is the course for?
This course is aimed at individuals seeking to develop an entrepreneurial mindset with a view to starting their own business or nurturing this approach within an existing organisational structure. Additionally, the course can provide a transition stage for graduates from other disciplines who wish to move into the management arena either as practitioners, researchers or consultants.
Course Content
In the full-time schedule, students are required to undertake 3 core modules plus one elective in semester 1, and 4 core modules plus one elective in semester 2. In addition, students are required to complete a ten-credit research methods module which runs across semester 1 and 2. The final element of the programme requires learners to undertake a research dissertation.
Core Modules
Entrepreneurial Dynamics
Business Models, Strategy and Tactics
Marketing in the Global Environment
Commercial Law
Leading, Managing and Planning in Organisations
Business Intelligence
Enterprise Simulation Game
Research Methods
Dissertation
Elective Modules
Corporate Governance, Business Ethics and CSR
Contemporary Issues in Global Finance
Sustainable Business Leadership
International Business
Strategic Management of Human Capital
Employment Law
Management in Postmodern Markets
Doing Business on the Cloud
Strategic Project Management
Availability of elective choices is subject to student numbers. The course content as shown above is for indicative purposes. The College reserves the right to re-order the schedule of modules offered.
Note: that all modules count towards the final award classification.
For more information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Entry Requirements
Applicants are required to hold a minimum of a 2.2 honours degree in either a cognate or non-cognate area at level 8 on the National Framework of Qualifications.
For applicants whose first language is not English, please note the
English language entry requirements
.
For international students, please visit NCI's
Your Country
section to view the specific entry requirements for your region.
The college operates a
Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL)
scheme meaning non-graduates with extensive professional experience and other prior qualifications may also be considered for the course.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Award and Progression
The MSc in Entrepreneurship course is awarded by QQI at level 9 on the National Framework of Qualifications. This award will allow transfer to level 9 research degrees and in some cases progression to taught doctoral courses at level 10 on the NFQ.
Indicative Schedule
Students need to be available 09.00 - 17.00 Monday - Friday. Full-time students may also be required to attend classes after 17.00 (Class days and times vary).
Please note that exams can be scheduled during the morning, afternoon or evening Monday to Saturday.
Course Delivery
On-campus face-to-face classes.
Duration
September Start
1 year taught plus a final dissertation: 2 semesters (Sep-Dec and Jan-May), dissertation due in August
Course Fee
This course costs €8,500 total fee
(EU/Ireland applicants, fees revised annually)
You can spread the cost of this course with a
direct debit plan
.
NCI Scholarships
We offer a range of scholarships and discounts for both NCI and non-NCI graduates. Current NCI students and alumni can avail of a 25% discount on this course by applying for our Master's Edge Scholarship.
View our full list of
scholarships
.
International Students' Fees
The course fee for international students is €17,000.
Fees will be revised annually.
For more information on international fees, please visit
International Fees & Funding
and
International Scholarships
.
Learn more about studying at NCI as an
international student
.
Student Profile