BSc (Honours) in Computing
Course Instance ID:
476652536
Description:
BSc (Honours) in Computing
Duration:
4 years
NFQ Level:
Level 8
Brochure:
Download BSc (Honours) in Computing brochure
With specialisations in: 1. Games Programming 2. Cybersecurity 3. Digital Business Transformation 4. Software Development 5. Artificial Intelligence / Machine Learning 6. Networking & Cloud Infrastructure
NCI’s innovative BSc (Honours) in Computing will provide you with programming and advanced problem-solving skills, to create software applications that solve realworld problems. This exciting course will expose you to areas like games programming, software development, cybersecurity, Networking & Cloud Infrastructure, AI & Machine Learning and digital business transformation.
CAO Course Code:
NC003
International Students
If you are an international student interested in applying for this programme, please click on the link below:
September 2026 - Apply Here
Course details
About this Course
The course is industry-focused with options for students to gain real world experience through Service Learning, Work Placement or International Exchange (Erasmus) for work or study in the third year. NCI students are highly sought after and complete their work experience in companies such as Microsoft, O2, ESB, Wells Fargo, Dotmobi, Datalex and Intel.
Graduates of this course can create software applications on mobile devices, in the cloud, on the web and in gaming, using the latest technologies; understand how to incorporate multimedia into software applications; can analyse and interpret data to address real business problems; understand the cloud computing paradigm and its implications for software, infrastructure and platforms; and can secure software applications from malware and hacking.
CAO Open Day Events
Join us at one of our CAO Open Day events for Leaving Certificate students where you will be able to chat with our lecturers and talk to students about their course experiences.
Wednesday, May 13th 2026 - Register Here
Saturday, June 27th 2026 - Register Here
Course Content
For information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Course Structure and Award
This undergraduate course is a four-year honours degree. The course is run over eight semesters with continuous assessments held throughout the course and examinations at the end of each semester. On completion, you will receive a QQI BSc (Honours) Degree in Computing at level 8 on the National Framework of Qualifications. The course also prepares students for industry-recognised certification in leading technologies.
Work Experience
The course is industry-focused with a six-month work placement in the third year. NCI students are highly sought after and complete their work experience in companies such as Microsoft, O2, ESB, Wells Fargo, Dotmobi, Datalex and Intel.
Further Study Options
Upon successful completion of the BSc (Honours) in Computing, graduates can progress to postgraduate courses at level 9 on the National Framework of Qualifications such as the
MSc in Cybersecurity
,
MSc in Data Analytics
,
MSc in Fintech
or the
MSc in Artificial Intelligence
at National College of Ireland.
Career Prospects
Graduates of this course can perform a number of roles, including software developer, mobile application developer, IT support, project engineer, security analyst and games developer. Previous employers have included Microsoft, Lionbridge, Hewlett Packard, KPMG, Tapadoo, Arvato, Salesforce, Facebook and Vivendi Games. This course is also suitable for those who wish to pursue a career in teaching as it is recognised by the Teaching Council to teach computing.
According to a recent
Higher Education Outcomes Report
released by the CSO, ICT graduates receive the highest weekly earnings five years after graduating compared to other sectors based on the analysis of the destinations of students who graduated between 2010 and 2016.
Who is the course for?
This full-time computing course will appeal to students interested in the possibilities created by information and communications technology. The course is for school leavers, mature students and graduates of QQI level 5/6 programmes who wish to embark on a course of full-time study.
Minimum Entry Requirements
Minimum entry requirements are a grade H5 or above in two higher level subjects together with a minimum of O6/H7 in four other subjects. A minimum of grade O6/H7 must be obtained in English or Irish. A grade O6/H7 must be obtained in Mathematics.
Applicants who have successfully completed the QQI Level 6 Software Development (6M0691) or QQI Level 6 Networking Technologies (6M0695) courses may be eligible for advanced entry to year 2 of this programme.
Applicants from a PLC/further education course must have a full level 5/6 award, three distinctions and meet the CAO points requirement
For applicants whose first language is not English, please note the
English language entry requirements
.
For international students, please visit NCI's
Your Country
section to view the specific entry requirements for your region.
Mature applicants
, applicants with a disability or those applying through the
DARE
or
HEAR
access schemes can find out more information on the
application process
.
Please note that exams can be scheduled during the morning, afternoon or evening Monday to Saturday.
Laptop Requirements
Students in Year 1 and Year 2 of this programme are not expected to bring their own device as all classes will be scheduled in rooms with PC's. To successfully participate it is advisable to have access to a computer/laptop at home.
Please be aware that Year 3 and Year 4 operates a Bring Your Own Device policy. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
CAO Points
2025 CAO Points Guide :* 270
*For each course we have given a guideline based on our points over the past 3 years. This is a guide only, points vary each year.
The CAO course code is NC003.
QQI Level 5/6 Applicants
For entry to year 1, students must obtain a minimum of 3 distinctions and a full award and meet the CAO points requirements to apply for this Level 8 course. Visit our
QQI Applicants
page for further information.
For Advanced Entry directly to Year 2, please visit our
Advanced Entry
page for further information.
Sports Scholarship
Did you know you can apply for a
Sports Scholarship
at NCI?
Watch this video
to hear from our current sports scholars Stephen Achukwu (basketball) and Adam Leonard (football):
Free Fees
This course qualifies under the
Free Fees Initiative
and
Student Grant Scheme
.
International Students' Fees
Please note that effective from September 2026, the programme fee for International students is €14,000 per year.
For more information on international fees, please visit
International Fees & Funding
and
International Scholarships
.
Learn more about studying at NCI as an
international student
.
For domestic students applying through the CAO, this course applies under the free fees initiative. For further information, please see
Free Fees Initiative
.
Student Profile