MA in Human Resource Management
Course Instance ID:
503843039
Description:
MA in Human Resource Management
Duration:
2 years
NFQ Level:
Level 9
Brochure:
Download MA in Human Resource Management brochure
This intensive course has been developed in consultation with the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD).
The programme aims to develop an in-depth understanding of the core disciplines in the area of human resources (HR). It recognises that HR must operate in challenging and dynamic business environments that are constantly changing, and seeks to enable students to deliver effective business solutions that optimise the people resources of their organisation.
How to Apply
Students must successfully complete the
Postgraduate Diploma in Arts in Human Resource Management
before continuing their studies to receive the award of Master of Arts in Human Resource Management.
Course details
About this Course
Combined with a practitioner-recognised qualification in the area of HRM, namely
CIPD
, this course is geared towards people wishing to continue or progress in their professional development in HR or wider roles in the organisation.
Block teaching is used to provide the opportunity for more in-depth development of knowledge within modules. An applied approach to teaching is used within the programme with lectures interspersed with exercises, use of case study analysis, group activities in class, debate on contemporary issues as well as independent learning.
Who is the course for?
This course is aimed primarily at individuals seeking an academic qualification at postgraduate level while also wishing to advance their career to assume positions at senior management level with a specific focus on human resource management.
Course Content
Core Modules
Leading and Managing
Human Resource Management in a Strategic Business Context
People Resourcing
Employment Law
Employee Relations
Managing and Developing Talent
Research Methods
Dissertation
Elective Modules
Organisational Design and Development (10 credits)
Mediation and Conflict Management (10 credits)
Strategic Reward Management (10 credits)
International HRM (5 credits)
HR Analytics (5 credits)
The Science of Decision Making (5 credits)
Learners are required to choose one 10-credit and one 5-credit elective from the suite of electives offered above.
The course content as shown above is for indicative purposes. The college reserves the right to re-order the schedule of modules offered.
Note:
all modules count towards the final award classification. Elective modules are subject to availability and a minimum number of students required to run a module.
For more information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Award and Progression
The Master of Arts in Human Resource Management is awarded by QQI at level 9 on the National Framework of Qualifications. Graduates with relevant work experience will be eligible to apply for Chartered Membership of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) after successful completion of the first 3 semesters. A membership fee will be payable directly to CIPD.
This award will allow transfer to level 9 research degrees and in some cases progression to taught doctoral courses at level 10 on the NFQ.
Entry Requirements
Applicants are required to hold a minimum of a 2.2 honours degree in either a cognate or non-cognate area at level 8 on the National Framework of Qualifications.
For applicants whose first language is not English, please note the
English language entry requirements
.
The college operates a
Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL)
scheme meaning non-graduates with extensive professional experience and other prior qualifications may also be considered for the course.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Indicative Schedule
Year 1
Semesters 1, 2 and 3
Tuesday and Thursday 18.00 - 21.00 plus some Saturday workshops (on campus).
Year 2
Semester 1
Up to 6 Thursday evening sessions plus potentially some Saturday sessions.
Semester 2
Workshops based around research topics.
Each student is allocated an individual supervisor during the second year of study. It should be noted that the final semester of the course requires a high level of independent learning in order to complete the dissertation.
Additional Information
The Master of Arts in HRM comprises 5 semesters of study:
Year 1
Semester 1 (Sept to the end of Dec)
Semester 2 (Jan to early May)
Semester 3 (May to July)
Year 2
Semester 4 (Sept to Jan)
Semester 5 Dissertation due in August
Please note that exams can be scheduled during the morning, afternoon or evening Monday to Saturday.
Course Delivery
Blended
- Livestream (online) classes with some in-person (on campus) delivery. Exams may take the form of online or in person.
See the
MA in Human Resource Management course brochure
for an explanation of the learning methods.
Duration
2 years: 5 semesters; 3 semesters in year 1 and 2 semesters in year 2.
Course Fee
Year 1: € 7,750
Year 2: € 2,100
Total fee: €9,850
(Fees revised annually)
You can spread the cost of this course with a
direct debit plan
.
Scholarships and Discounts
We offer a range of
scholarship opportunities and discount offers
available to both NCI and non-NCI graduates that will help you access this course.
Student Profile