Postgraduate Diploma in Science in Artificial Intelligence
Course Instance ID:
911024953
Description:
Postgraduate Diploma in Science in Artificial Intelligence
Duration:
1 year
NFQ Level:
Level 9
Brochure:
Download Postgraduate Diploma in Science in Artificial Intelligence brochure
This course aims to produce high-quality, technically competent, innovative graduates that will become leading practitioners in the field of artificial intelligence.
This course contains modules covering fundamental and specialised AI topics as well as topics related to operationalisation and application of AI to solve real world problems. All students will gain a deeper understanding of the complete development lifecycle of AI software applications from requirements elicitation and analysis, implementation, decision making, evaluation, and documentation.
Course Fees:
If your fees are being paid by your company, you will need to complete an
Employer Sponsorship
form and return it to the Fees Office. NCI has a
Direct Debit Plan
that allows students to pay 20% of the fees upfront and the remainder in equal instalments.
Springboard+ is co-funded by the Government of Ireland and the European Union. For more information about EU Funds please visit
www.EUFunds.ie
.
Course details
Springboard+
This course is offered under
Springboard+
meaning you can join this course for free if you are currently unemployed or for a reduced cost of €700 if you are employed.
Visit the Springboard+ website to apply:
Postgraduate Diploma in Science in Artificial Intelligence -
Springboard+ applications for this programme have now closed.
Visit the Springboard+ website for information on
eligibility criteria
.
About this Course
The course will be delivered using academic research, industry defined practical problems, and case studies. This approach will naturally provide a deeper knowledge of AI and create skills required in industry such as critical thinking, problem-solving, creative thinking, communication, teamwork, and research skills.
Upon completion of this course, graduates will be able to:
Demonstrate expert knowledge of Engineering Artificial Intelligence systems, Machine Learning, Optimisation Techniques, and the tools, techniques and technologies of Artificial Intelligence utilised in real world contexts.
Formulate, design, implement, and evaluate novel real-world solutions at the forefront of Artificial Intelligence using the latest industry practices and standards.
Career Prospects
Graduates of the 2023 Postgraduate Diploma in Science in Artificial Intelligence used the programme to build on their existing skills and transition into roles across the tech industry, including Enterprise Solution Specialist (Microsoft), Enterprise Architecture Support (Primark), Data Analyst (Bank of Ireland), Business Data Analys (DAA), Business Integrity Data Analyst (Google), AI/ML Data Analyst (Apple).
Entry Requirements
A minimum of a level 8 primary degree in Computing or a cognate area with a 2.2 award or higher or equivalent on the National Qualifications Framework in Computing or a Cognate area. Candidates are expected to have programming ability. Cognate area means a STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) degree that also taught programming/ application development related modules. An assessment and/ or interview may be conducted to ascertain suitability if necessary for candidates who do not meet the normal academic requirements
The college operates a
Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL)
scheme meaning applicants who do not meet the normal academic requirements may be considered based on relevant work and other experience. This may be assessed using a portfolio of learning, demonstration of work produced, and an interview. The programming ability of the applicant will also be assessed.
Non-English speaking applicants
must demonstrate fluency in the English language as demonstrated by IELTS academic score of at least 6.0 or equivalent.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Assessment
The programme is assessed by means of continuous, in-semester, assessment and final examination. Please note that in some instances exams may take place in the daytime and at weekends.
Course Content
Semester 1:
Data Governance and Ethics
Foundations of Artificial Intelligence
Programming for Artificial Intelligence
Career Bridge
Semester 2:
Engineering and Evaluating Artificial Intelligence Systems
Intelligent Agents and Process Automation
Data Analytics for Artificial Intelligence
Semester 3:
Emergent Artificial Intelligence Technologies and Sustainability
Machine Learning
Artificial Intelligence Driven Decision Making
Springboard Careers Advisors will proactively support you to find relevant employment during the course or following completion of the course.
*Note that all modules count towards the final award classification.
For more information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Award and Progression
The Postgraduate Diploma of Science in Artificial Intelligence is awarded by QQI at level 9 on the National Framework for Qualifications. Students who successfully complete this course may top up to the MSc in AI at National College of Ireland (This is not included under Springboard + - an additional fee would apply).
Duration
This course runs over 1 year; 3 semesters.
Indicative Schedule
Tuesday and Thursday 18.00 - 22.00.
There will also be on average four hours self-paced learning per week on NCI’s Learning Platform weekly. This will not appear on your timetable.
Career Bridge classes will be delivered one day per week in Semester 1 from 17.00 to 18.00. Day to be confirmed.
Please note that exams can be scheduled during the morning, afternoon or evening Monday to Saturday.
Course Delivery
This is an online learning course that features Directed E-Learning activities such as live online classroom sessions and tutorials/ videos on the College’s e-learning system. This allows for online class time to be interactive, practical, and focused, with theory-based content being covered outside of class time with self-paced tutorials/videos, and practical content being covered in live online classes with support from lecturers.
Course Fee
Springboard+ Student Fees
A student contribution fee of €700 is applicable if you are in employment. No fees applicable if you are unemployed. The scheme does not cover any allowance for books and materials. See the Springboard+ tab above for further information.
If a student contribution fee is applicable this must be paid in full no later than 14th November 2025.
Non-Springboard+ Student Fees
€7,000
(Fees revised annually)
You can spread the cost of this course with a
direct debit plan
or complete an
Employer Sponsorship
form if your fees are being paid by your company.
Student Profile