MSc in Management
Course Instance ID:
503850897
Description:
MSc in Management
Duration:
2 years
NFQ Level:
Level 9
Brochure:
Download MSc in Management brochure
The MSc in Management has been developed to satisfy the demand for courses that combine a strong theoretical foundation with a firm focus on practical application. You will be exposed to the most current schools of thought in disciplines such as international business, finance, marketing, entrepreneurship and strategy.
Course details
About this Course
The course provides a series of elective modules for students to explore other areas of interest or to emphasise their development in a specific area of their choice. Development of effective managerial skills, which include analytical problem solving, decision-making, effective communication and leadership, is encouraged throughout the course.
Such skills provide strong tools which can be applied in real day-to-day management situations and serve graduates to aim at higher management positions within the organisation.
Block teaching is used to provide the opportunity for more in-depth development of knowledge within modules. An applied approach to teaching is used within the programme with lectures interspersed with exercises, use of case study analysis, group activities in class, debate on contemporary issues as well as independent learning
Who is the course for?
The course is aimed at anyone following a career path which requires them to step into middle to top management positions. Additionally, the course can provide a transition stage for graduates from other disciplines who wish to move into the management arena either as practitioners, researchers or consultants.
Course Content
In the part-time schedule in both year 1 and year 2 of the programme, students are required to undertake two core modules per semester plus one elective in semester 2. In addition, in year 2 of the programme students are required to complete a ten-credit research methods module which runs across semester 1 and 2. The final element of the programme requires learners to undertake a research dissertation.
Core Modules
Business Models, Strategy and Tactics
Financial Management
Marketing in the Global Environment
Leading, Managing and Planning in Organisations
Economics for Management
International Business
Research Methods
Dissertation
Elective Modules
Commercial Law
Corporate Governance, Business Ethics and CSR
Contemporary Issues in Global Finance
Business Intelligence
Entrepreneurship
Strategic Management of Human Capital
Employment Law
Sustainable Business Leadership
Doing Business on the Cloud
Strategic Project Management
Management in Postmodern Markets
Availability of elective choices is subject to student numbers. The course content as shown above is for indicative purposes. The college reserves the right to re-order the schedule of modules offered. Note that all modules count towards the final award classification.
For more information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Award and Progression
The MSc in Management course is awarded by QQI at level 9 on the National Framework of Qualifications. This award will allow transfer to level 9 research degrees and in some cases progression to taught doctoral courses at level 10 on the NFQ.
Entry Requirements
Applicants are required to hold a minimum of a 2.2 honours degree in either a cognate or noncognate area at level 8 on the National Framework of Qualifications.
For applicants whose first language is not English, please note the
English language entry requirements
.
The college operates a
Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL)
scheme meaning non-graduates with extensive professional experience and other prior qualifications may also be considered for the course.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Indicative Schedule
Monday and Wednesday 18.00 - 21.00 and some Saturday workshops (on campus).
Please note that exams can be scheduled during the morning, afternoon or evening Monday to Saturday.
Course Delivery
Blended – Livestream (online) classes with some campus classes and some in-person exams, scheduled in advance. Exams may take the form of online or in person.
Duration
This course runs over 2 full calendar years: 5 semesters; 4 taught semesters and a final dissertation to be submitted in the final year.
Course Fee
€4,250 per annum (€8,500 total fee)
(Fees revised annually)
You can spread the cost of this course with a
direct debit plan
.
Scholarships and Discounts
We offer a range of
scholarship opportunities and discount offers
available to both NCI and non-NCI graduates that will help you access this course.
Student Profile