Artificial Intelligence Courses
Innovative courses in artificial intelligence delivered by the expert academic team at National College of Ireland.
Find a course
Studying Artificial Intelligence at NCI
National College of Ireland aims to produce high-quality, technically competent, innovative graduates that will become leading practitioners in the field of artificial intelligence.
Whether you already have experience studying or working in AI, or you wish to transition from a non-ICT qualification into this area, there are a number of courses currently available at NCI that will suit you. Our funded courses offered through
Springboard+
are mainly delivered online over 1 year and provide the opportunity to develop your knowledge of artificial intelligence and machine learning at a reduced cost. Our master's degrees in AI, delivered full-time, will provide you with a deeper understanding of the lifecycle of AI and the impact of AI solutions in business contexts.
Visit the course pages to learn how to apply.
AI Courses Funded By Springboard+
Our Springboard+ funded courses are ideal for students wishing to transition into a career in artificial intelligence or advance their knowledge of this area. Classes start in September, visit the course page to learn how to apply.
Postgraduate Diploma in Science in Artificial Intelligence
This course aims to produce high-quality, technically competent, innovative graduates that will become leading practitioners in the field of artificial intelligence.
1 Year | Level 9 | Part-Time | Blended/Online
Course Details
Postgraduate Diploma in Science in AI for Business
Students will gain in-depth AI knowledge, understanding of impacts of human factors and engagement in AI and understanding the application of AI in various fields through sustainable solutions.
1 Year | Level 9 | Part-Time | Blended/Online
Course Details
Higher Diploma in Science in Computing (Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning)
This course provides learners with an understanding and application development of AI-powered products by leveraging expertise in machine learning and computational methods.
1 Year | Level 8 | Part-Time | Blended/Online
Course Details
Master's Degrees in Artificial Intelligence
The MSc in Artificial Intelligence and the MSc in Artificial Intelligence for Business are full-time, postgraduate programmes starting at NCI in September. Online applications are now open, visit a course page to get started.
MSc in Artificial Intelligence
MSc in AI students will gain a deeper understanding of the complete development lifecycle of AI software applications from requirements elicitation and analysis, implementation, decision making, evaluation, and documentation.
1 Year | Level 9 | Full-Time | Blended
See Course Details
MSc in Artificial Intelligence for Business
The overall goal of the MSc in AI for Business is to produce high-quality, technically competent, and innovative graduates with essential knowledge to understand the impacts, design, application, and operationalisation of AI solutions in business contexts.
1 Year | Level 9 | Full-Time | Blended
See Course Details
Get in Touch
If you have any questions about our artificial intelligence courses, get in touch with our Admissions Team by emailing admissions@ncirl.ie.
Contact Us