BA (Honours) in Business
Course Instance ID:
404239477
Description:
BA (Honours) in Business
Duration:
3 years
NFQ Level:
Level 8
Brochure:
Download BA (Honours) in Business brochure
The BA (Honours) in Business is a modern, comprehensive and broad-based business degree, designed with modern businesses in mind and the requirement to produce graduates with relevant employability skills that also embrace broader societal needs in relation to sustainability and business ethics.
CAO Course Code:
NC009
Location
Start Date
IFSC Campus
14/09/2026
Apply Now
Course details
CAO Open Day Events
Join us at one of our CAO Open Day events for Leaving Certificate students where you will be able to chat with our lecturers and talk to students about their course experiences.
Wednesday, May 13th 2026 - Register Here
Saturday, June 27th 2026 - Register Here
About this Course
Graduates of this course have a great foundation in all aspects of the modern business world, understand how to analyse and solve business problems and are highly employable in areas such as management, marketing, industrial relations, economics and international trade.
Students of this course may also be able to take advantage of an opportunity to engage in a year-long, accredited work placement between years two and three. This placement is credit-bearing and comprises an extra year in the degree. Access to such placements is limited and highly competitive
Who is the course for?
This course is ideal if you want a broad understanding of business or you don’t yet know in which area of business you would like to specialise. The course is for school leavers, mature students and graduates of QQI level 5/6 programmes who wish to embark on a course of full-time study.
Career Prospects
Graduates of the BA (Honours) in Business course at NCI are now employed at huge employers including LinkedIn, Accenture, AIB, Arvato, Citi, Bord Gáis, Deutsche Bank, IBM, State Street, Willis Towers Watson and UPS.
Read more about the
career pathways of NCI business students
.
Course Structure and Award
This undergraduate business course is a three-year honours degree (four years with the option of a placement*). The main course is run over six semesters with continuous assessment held throughout the course and examinations at the end of each semester. In each year of the degree, any student with an overall average of 70+ will win a Dean’s Award. On completion, you will receive a QQI BA (Honours) Degree in Business at level 8 on the National Framework of Qualifications.
*Students are eligible (subject to availability) to complete a work placement on year three of the programme and graduate after four years with 240 ECTS credits.
Further Study Options
Upon successful completion of the BA (Honours) in Business, graduates with the appropriate entry requirements can progress to postgraduate business courses at level 9 on the National Framework of Qualifications including
MSc in Management
,
MSc in International Business
or
MA in HRM
, all available at National College of Ireland.
Work Placement
Flexible Choices for High-Achieving Students
Work placements are highly regarded by graduate recruiters and offer many advantages to students.
Advantages include the opportunity to make contact in industry, networking experience, work-based practical skills and experience, assisting in developing personal and professional confidence, and an opportunity to boost your employability prospects when you graduate.
High-achieving students (averaging 60% plus) can elect to do a year-long work placement between year 2 and year 3. Companies that have recruited NCI students in the past include Arthur Cox, Caceis Investor Services, Primark, Ryanair and the Central Bank of Ireland.
Your final year capstone project allows you to apply the qualitative and quantitative methodologies and analytic techniques you’ve acquired throughout your degree programme to deliver a dissertation on an aspect of business practice.
Minimum Entry Requirements
Minimum entry requirements are a grade H5 and above in two higher level subjects together with a minimum of O6/H7 in four other subjects. A minimum of grade O6/H7 must be obtained in English. A grade O6/H7 must be obtained in Mathematics. Applicants from a PLC/further education course must have a full level 5/6 award, three distinctions and meet the CAO points requirement.
For applicants whose first language is not English, please note the
English language entry requirements
.
For international students, please visit NCI's
Your Country
section to view the specific entry requirements for your region.
Mature applicants
, applicants with a disability or those applying through the
DARE
or
HEAR
access schemes can find out more information on the
application process
.
Please note that exams can be scheduled during the morning, afternoon or evening Monday to Saturday.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Course Content
Year 1
Academic Management Skills
Business Law
Economics for the 21st Century
Financial Accounting
Human Resource Management
Individual Behaviour in The Organisation
Marketing in the Digital Age
Quantitative Methods
Year 2
Financial Management
Management
Project Management
Social and Organisational Behaviour
Technologies for Business
Career Management Skills
Entrepreneurship
Global Business Environment
Macroenvironment Policy and Sustainability
Professional Development Skills
Year 3
Business Statistics and Analytics
Economic and Social Policy
Marketing Management
Strategic Management
Sustainability and Business Ethics
Year 3 Elective Modules
Capstone Project Preparation
Change Management and Organisational Development
Financial Management Tools for the Enterprise
Public Relations and Social Media
Applied Behavioural Economics
Capstone Project
Corporate Environmentalism
Data Analytics
Essentials of Employment Law
Global Operations, Planning and Design
Sales Management
Electives may include prerequisites, are subject to change, and availability is subject to class sizes.
For more information on the electives and specialisations of this course, please download the
BA (Honours) in Business
brochure.
For information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Free Fees
This course qualifies under the
Free Fees Initiative
and
Student Grant Scheme
.
Sports Scholarship
Did you know you can apply for a
Sports Scholarship
at NCI?
Watch this video
to hear from our current sports scholars Stephen Achukwu (basketball) and Adam Leonard (football):
CAO Points
2025 CAO Points Guide :* 300
*For each course we have given a guideline based on our points over the past 3 years. This is a guide only, points vary each year.
The CAO course code is NC009.
QQI Level 5/6 Requirements
Students must obtain a minimum of 3 distinctions and a full award and meet the CAO points requirements to apply for this Level 8 course.
Visit our
QQI Applicants
page for further information.
International Students' Fees
Please note that effective from September 2026, the programme fee for International students is €12,000 per year.
For more information on international fees, please visit
International Fees & Funding
and
International Scholarships
.
Learn more about studying at NCI as an
international student
.
For domestic students applying through the CAO, this course applies under the free fees initiative. For further information, please see
Free Fees Initiative
.
Student Profile