MSc in Accounting
Course Instance ID:
918912207
Description:
MSc in Accounting
Duration:
1 Year
NFQ Level:
Level 9
Brochure:
Download MSc in Accounting brochure
The MSc in Accounting has been designed in consultation with industry to provide candidates with key skills alongside a robust theoretical understanding of accounting.
The programme is ideal for those who are interested in accounting but do not have an accounting-related undergraduate degree, as this programme allows those students to pursue a conversion programme, allowing them to gain professional accountancy body exemptions. By doing so, this programme will fast track successful graduates to becoming professional accountants.
Location
Start Date
IFSC Campus
14/09/2026
Apply Now
Course details
About this Course
Candidates will develop a critical and analytical approach to problem-solving and decision-making in an accounting context and develop the ability to interpret, analyse and communicate financial and other information. The learning environment for the course is practical and applied in nature and on completion graduates will be able to think independently, make informed and effective decisions and critically engage with accounting practices and contemporary accounting issues.
Candidates will also gain a broader business viewpoint and develop insights into effective leadership practices, corporate governance and ethics issues, in addition to insight into business intelligence to deepen their understanding of data and data governance, gaining the capacity to use quantitative methods and analytics to make more data-informed decisions.
Who is the course for?
The course is for those wishing to embark on a career in accountancy.
Course Content
The MSc in Accounting provides students with critical competencies required by a professional accountant in today’s ever-evolving dynamic environment.
Students are required to undertake 6 core modules (5 credit modules) in Semester 1 and Semester 2. The uniqueness of this programme is that students have a choice of deciding between Pathway A (30 credits research methods and final dissertation) or Pathway B (3 x 10 credit modules).
One of the principal objectives of the programme is that graduates will, on successful completion of the programme, have entitlement exemptions from professional bodies such as ACCA, Chartered Accountants Ireland, CIMA and CPA.
Core Modules
(5 Credits each)
Financial Accounting
Taxation
Audit and Assurance
Company Law
Financial Management
Management Accounting
Financial Reporting
Advanced Taxation
Advanced Financial Management
Performance Management
Corporate Governance and Ethics
Business Intelligence
AND a choice of Pathway A or Pathway B
Elective Pathway A
Research Methods (10 Credits – over 2 semesters)
Dissertation (20 Credits – Semester 3)
OR
Elective Pathway B
Critical Perspectives in Accounting (10 Credits – over 2 semesters)
Effective Leadership in the Organisation (10 Credits – Semester 3)
Accounting in Practice (10 Credits – Semester 3)
Note:
Availability of elective choices is subject to student numbers. The course content as shown above is for indicative purposes. All modules count towards the final award classification.
For more information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Award and Progression
The MSc in Accounting is awarded by QQI at level 9 on the National Framework of Qualifications. This award will allow transfer to level 9 research degrees and in some cases progression to taught doctoral courses at level 10 on the NFQ.
Entry Requirements
Applicants are required to hold a minimum of a level 8 qualification (minimum 2:2 Honours) or equivalent on the National Qualifications Framework in a non-accounting discipline. Cognate degree holders will also be considered (those presenting with a minimum 2:2 Honours level 8 award).
For applicants whose first language is not English, please note the
English language entry requirements
.
For international students, please visit NCI's
Your Country
section to view the specific entry requirements for your region.
Applications may also be considered under the
College’s Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL)
policy and this is likely to be particularly germane to the part-time provision of the course. RPEL will be assessed on the learner’s work experience and Continuing Professional Development (CPD).
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Course Delivery
On-campus face-to-face classes.
Professional Recognition
Successful graduates may claim the following professional exemptions:
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA): Various papers at the Applied Knowledge and Applied Skills levels (9 papers in total).
Chartered Accountants Ireland (CAI): Full CAP 1 exemptions.
Certified Public Accountants (CPA Ireland); Foundational Level (Financial Accounting, Management Accounting and Taxation), Professional Level (Financial Reporting, Advanced Taxation, Corporate Law, Audit & Assurance and Managerial Finance).
Exemption criteria are subject to change, students and graduates should check with the relevant professional bodies for the up-to-date criteria.
Indicative Schedule
Students need to be available 09.00-17.00 Mon – Fri. Full-time students may also be required to attend classes after 5pm. Class days and times vary and all modules will be delivered on-campus.
Please note that exams can be scheduled during the morning, afternoon or evening Monday to Saturday.
Duration
September Starts
1 year taught - 2 semesters (Sep-Dec and Jan-May) 3 additional modules (May-Aug) or a final Dissertation (due in August)
Course Fee
€9,600 total fee
(EU/Ireland applicants, fees revised annually)
You can spread the cost of this course with a
direct debit plan
.
NCI Scholarships
We offer a range of scholarships and discounts for both NCI and non-NCI graduates. Current NCI students and alumni can avail of a 25% discount on this course by applying for our Master's Edge Scholarship.
View our full list of
scholarships
.
International Students' Fees
The course fee for international students is €17,000.
Fees will be revised annually.
For more information on international fees, please visit
International Fees & Funding
and
International Scholarships
. Learn more about studying at NCI as an
international student
.
Student Profile