Refund Policy
Refund Procedure for international students
This refund procedure, refers to international students as outlined in the
NCI Fees Policy and NCI Fees Procedure
.
Please note the updated refund table effective from the September 2026 intake and beyond
.
The NCI Fees Policy and NCI Fees Procedure is in line with Ireland’s immigration regulations. Any administration charges cover a range of costs that include but are not limited to, counselling, application processing, receipts, bank charges, international office support, recruitment costs and opportunity costs.
Refund Requests
Refunds are processed within 20 business days from receipt of a complete refund request form and all required supporting documents.
It is the students responsibility to check and submit all the necessary supporting documents. If documents are missing or incorrectly filled in, there could be a significant delay.
Refunds will only be issued to the originating bank of initial payments.
Students from visa required Countries, who obtain a visa sticker to travel to Ireland based on their studies at NCI, must surrender their visa sticker for the refund to be processed
Students who obtain Irish Residency Permit (IRP) based on their enrolment at NCI must inform immigration services if they decide to withdraw from the college.
Refund Documents Required for All Refunds
NCI Refund Request Form
Final NCI Fees Receipt
Payment confirmation reciept(s) (Swift Reciept or MT103) from the originating bank account
Payment confirmation receipt(s) (Swift Receipt or MT103) must show the originating bank details.
Learn more about the Swift or MT103 documents
.
Where a payment is made through a third party provider such as Ebixcash, Cohortgo etc. NCI will require the applicants (or their sponsors) bank statement clearly showing the payment to NCI through the third party.
Additional Supporting Documents, when applicable
Visa Rejection Letter
English Language Certificate. If does not meet English Language Requirement.
Final Transcripts. If does not meet Academic Entry requirements.
If students withdraw/don’t travel or withdraw/return home. Cancelled Visa Sticker, Boarding Pass if returned home, NCI Student Card, IRP Card
Refund Table
Refund Table International Students up to January 2026 Intake
Access
Refund Table for International Students
up to January 2026 Intake.
Refund Table International Students from September 2026 Intake
Access
Refund Table for International Students
from September 2026 Intake.
Additional Information
Terms and Conditions
Refunds will be reimbursed in Euro or in the same currency as the fees were originally demanded and via the same payment method as the original payment was made. In the case of bank transfer, refunds must be issued to a bank account in the country of origin of the original payment(s).
Where the applicant is requesting a refund on the basis of a visa refusal, failure to meet entry requirements, a refund will only be processed once all supporting evidence has been provided to NCI.
Where an applicant has submitted fraudulent documents or an incomplete visa application or an application, which NCI deems to have been purposely submitted, in order for it to be rejected, we reserve the right to charge the relevant administrative fee based upon the timing of the rejection and refund application. Applicants should note that rejected visas could significantly hinder any future visa applications. A refused visa can stop applicants from applying for a visa to Ireland for a further five years and visa rejections must be declared on all future visa applications for any country in the world that applicants wish to travel to.
Where an offer was made, based on incorrect, incomplete or fraudulent information and/or documents being supplied by a student, having registered at NCI, no refund will be provided.
Where a student has paid for a multiple courses, semesters or pathways, but fails to progress, refunds will be provided on a pro-rata basis unless the breakdown of fees is otherwise stated.
A student whose entitlement to attend a programme is terminated due to academic misconduct or antisocial behaviour, no refund will be provided.
A student in breach of government regulation or rules governing his/her student status in Ireland, no refund will be provided.
A student who is convicted of a criminal offence in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Ireland no refund will be provided.
The business owner for the refund policy is the Director of Marketing, Robert Ward.