Higher Certificate in Business
Course Instance ID:
479897060
Description:
Higher Certificate in Business
Duration:
2 years
NFQ Level:
Level 6
Brochure:
Download Higher Certificate in Business brochure
NCI’s Higher Certificate in Business is an ideal introduction to contemporary theories and approaches to modern business practices in key areas such as marketing, human resource management and entrepreneurship.
Students who enrol on this course can progress to second year of the
BA (Hons) in Business
degree.
CAO Course Code:
NC103
Location
Start Date
IFSC Campus
14/09/2026
Apply Now
Course details
About this Course
Graduates of this course have specialised knowledge of the key theories and principles relevant to business; are equipped with good personal skills in communication, problem-solving and teamwork; understand the latest thinking in areas of HRM, marketing, finance and management; and have the ability to apply knowledge and skills to solve problems within the business world.
CAO Open Day Events
Join us at one of our CAO Open Day events for Leaving Certificate students where you will be able to chat with our lecturers and talk to students about their course experiences.
Wednesday, May 13th 2026 - Register Here
Saturday, June 27th 2026 - Register Here
CAO Points
2025 CAO Points Guide :* 250
*For each course we have given a guideline based on our points over the past 3 years. This is a guide only, points vary each year.
The CAO course code is NC103.
Course Content
Year 1
Personal & Professional Academic Skills
Fundamentals of Management
Applied Creativity
Business IT Skills Project Management
Irish Business & Society
Introduction to Entrepreneurship
Introduction to Business Statistics
Year 2
Financial Accounting
Economics for the 21st Century
Human Resource Management
Academic Management Skills
Business Law
Marketing in the Digital Age
Individual Organisational Behaviour
Quantitative Methods
For information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Course Structure and Award
This undergraduate course is a two-year higher certificate. It is run over four semesters with continuous assessment held throughout the course and examinations at the end of each semester.
On completion you will receive a QQI Higher Certificate in Business at level 6 on the National
Framework of Qualifications.
Further Study Options
Upon successful completion of the Higher Certificate in Business, graduates can potentially gain entry into year two of NCI’s BA (Honours) in Business programme.
Recent Masters’ graduates include students who have progressed from the Higher Cert in Business to the BA Honours in Business, on through to successful completion of NCI’s MA in Human Resource Management.
Career Prospects
This course provides an excellent basis for starting work in a variety of roles within business, commercial or public sector bodies. It equips you with the knowledge and skills needed to build a successful career in the business world.
Minimum Entry Requirements
Minimum entry requirements are a grade O6/H7 or above in five subjects. A minimum of grade O6/H7 must be obtained in English. A grade O6/H7/F2 must be obtained in Mathematics. Applicants from a PLC/further education course must have a full level 5/6 award and meet the CAO points requirements. Applicants who hold 3 distinctions at level 5 and meet the CAO points requirement, will be considered for entry to Year 2 of the course.
For applicants whose first language is not English, please note the
English language entry requirements
.
Mature applicants
, applicants with a disability or those applying through the
DARE
or
HEAR
access schemes can find out more information on the
application process
.
Please note that exams can be scheduled during the morning, afternoon or evening Monday to Saturday.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Who is the course for?
The course may be particularly appealing to students who are unsure about committing themselves to a degree programme, but who want the option to transfer on to the second year of a business degree in the future.
QQI Level 5/6 Requirements
Students must obtain a minimum of 5 passes and a full award and meet the CAO points requirements to apply for this Level 6 course.
Visit our
QQI Applicants
page for further information.
Sports Scholarship
Did you know you can apply for a
Sports Scholarship
at NCI?
Watch this video
to hear from our current sports scholars Stephen Achukwu (basketball) and Adam Leonard (football):
Free Fees
This course qualifies under the
Free Fees Initiative
and
Student Grant Scheme
.
International Student's Fees
The fee for this course for international students is €12,000. For more information on international fees, please visit
International Fees & Funding
and
International Scholarships
.
Learn more about studying at NCI as an
international student
.
Student Profile