MSc in Data Analytics
Course Instance ID:
1054430754
Description:
MSc in Data Analytics
Duration:
2 years
NFQ Level:
Level 9
Brochure:
Download MSc in Data Analytics brochure
Please note that this programme is run through NCI and funded by Technology Ireland ICT Skillnet.
Applications for January 2027 are now open. All applications for this programme must be made through the
Technology Ireland ICT Skillnet website
.
Visit the Course Fees tab below for further information on the subsidised course fees available through Technology Ireland ICT Skillnet.
Course details
About this Course
The overall goal of the MSc in Data Analytics programme is to provide graduates with essential research and development skills in Data Analytics. It is envisaged that graduates from this programme will be well equipped to perform independent research that enables them to make informed and critical decisions regarding requirements elicitation and analysis, implementation, evaluation, and documentation in Data Analytics.
Furthermore, the programme seeks to produce graduates who are able to provide insight, gain value and discover knowledge (at an organisational, societal, or personal level) from data through exercising the skills that are developed through the programmes.
The course structure accommodates a wide audience of learners whose specific interests in data analytics may be either technically focused or business focused. The course will be delivered using academic research, industry-defined practical problems, and case studies. This approach will naturally foster a deeper knowledge of the subject area and create transferable skills for work such as critical thinking, problem-solving, creative thinking, communication, teamwork, and research skills. The course is completely delivered by faculty and industry practitioners with proven expertise in data analytics.
Who is the course for?
This course is ideal for graduates that are looking to progress into the emerging data analytics market to increase their employment potential. The course is suitable for graduates who have technical or mathematical problem-solving skills.
Graduates from disciplines that have not developed these skills will need to be able to demonstrate an aptitude for technical or mathematical problem solving.
Upon completion of this course, graduates will be able to:
Conduct substantial and extensive independent research and analysis in the field of Data Analytics.
Formulate and implement a novel research idea using the latest industry practices.
Demonstrate expert knowledge and a critical understanding of data analysis, statistics, and the tools, techniques and technologies of Data Analytics utilised in both technical and business contexts.
Critically assess, evaluate and communicate business & technical strategies for Data Analytics.
Formulate, design, assess, and implement effective business & technical solutions for Data Analytics.
Critically assess and evaluate security, privacy, sustainability, and ethical issues associated with the storage, transfer, and processing of data for analytical purposes.
Course Content
Core Modules
Statistics and Optimisation
Analytics Programming and Data Visualisation
Data Governance, Ethics and Sustainability
Business Intelligence and Business Analytics
Data mining and Machine Learning
Deep Learning and Generative AI
Elective Choices
Data Intensive Scalable Systems*
Modelling and Simulation*
Domain Applications*
*Elective modules are subject to availability and a minimum number of students required to run a module.
Research Elective
Research Practicum OR
Internship**
**The Internship module is available to students as an elective in their final semester. Please note that in view of the restrictive and specialist nature of the programme, the School of Computing reserves the right not to offer certain modules on an elective basis
Assessment
The course will be assessed with a blend of project work and exams. This varies between modules but typically assessment is 50% continuous assessment and 50% exam.
For information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Further information can be found on our
Programme Overview
document as well.
Award and Progression
The Master of Science in Data Analytics is awarded by QQI at level 9 on the National Framework of Qualifications. Students who successfully complete this course may progress to a major award at level 10 on the NFQ. Students may also elect to exit early with the Postgraduate Diploma in Science in Data Analytics at level 9 on the NFQ.
Entry Requirements
A minimum of a level 8 (honours degree) qualification (2.2 or higher) on the National Framework of Qualifications. Applicants may be from a cognate/STEM background. Standard applicants for the programme are those who hold computing or numerate degrees. All applicants for the programme must provide evidence that they have prior programming experience (e.g., via academic transcripts or recognised certification).
For candidates who do not have a level 8 qualification, the college operates a
Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL)
scheme meaning applicants  who do not meet the normal academic entry requirements, may be considered based on relevant work or other experience.
Non-English speaking applicants must demonstrate fluency in the English language as demonstrated by an IELTS academic score of at least 6.0 or equivalent. Visit our
English Language Requirements
page for further information.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Indicative Schedule
Two evenings per week 18.00 - 22.00 and every second Saturday.
Please note that in some instances exams may take place in the daytime, evening, and/or at weekends.
Course Delivery
Blended - Livestream with some directed e-learning activities, scheduled in advance.
Duration
This course runs over 2 years; 4 semesters with a final internship/research practicum.
Course Fee
Fees
Full course fee: €3,875 per year
Technology Ireland ICT Skillnet grant: €725 per year
Subsidised course fee: €3,150 per year
Part-funded fees are only available to eligible applicants*.
*Funding Eligibility
Applicants must be working in a private or commercial semi-state organisation registered in the Republic of Ireland (Business, Consultant, Freelancer) to avail of the grant-aided fees. As a government-funded training network, Technology Ireland ICT Skillnet can only support those meeting these criteria.
Applicants who do not meet this funding criteria may in some cases be able to apply and pay the full fee per year if there are available places. This includes public sector, unemployed and those in charitable organisations.
Contact Technology Ireland ICT Skillnet
for more information
Technology Ireland ICT Skillnet
This programme starting in January 2027 is part-funded by Technology Ireland ICT Skillnet.
Part-funded fees are only available for eligible candidates working in private or commercial semi-state organisations in the Republic of Ireland. If you are interested in applying, please submit your CV on the
Technology Ireland ICT Skillnet website
.
Technology Ireland ICT Skillnet is a Government-backed business-support network, connecting teams and individuals from small and large companies to highly subsidised and cutting edge training in the latest technologies driving business development. Technology Ireland ICT Skillnet is promoted by Technology Ireland, an Ibec business association, and funded by Skillnet Ireland through the National Training Fund.
Student Profile