BA (Honours) in Psychology
Course Instance ID:
628936516
Description:
BA (Honours) in Psychology
Duration:
4 years
NFQ Level:
Level 8
Brochure:
Download BA (Honours) in Psychology brochure
Psychology is the fascinating study of the human mind and seeks to understand how we think, act and feel. In this degree you will look at compelling questions such as: What shapes our personality? How do children develop and learn? What influences our well-being? Why do we sometimes forget things? What gives some teams an edge over others?
The psychology degree at NCI will set you on an amazing journey of discovery. It will also equip you for a range of careers. Your degree could see you eventually working in clinical and psychological settings, business areas such as marketing, management and human resources, sports, education, and social work, among others. It is a degree that gives you a variety of career choices and the option of further postgraduate study.
This course is part-time,
see the full-time BA (Honours) in Psychology
.
Location
Start Date
IFSC Campus
16/09/2026
Apply Now
Course details
About this Course
Working with our dedicated and experienced psychology faculty, you will gain a solid grounding in the core areas of psychology, including cognitive psychology, personality and individual differences, lifespan development, social psychology, research methods and biological psychology, as well as specialised topics such as workplace psychology, criminal psychology and cyberpsychology.
You will cover major theoretical perspectives, including those of Freud, Jung and Pavlov, and will be encouraged to apply these theories to the world around you through an interesting range of projects and assignments. In studying the science of Psychology, you will learn how to apply the scientific method to questions relating to the human condition.
This degree will give you an excellent, broad knowledge in psychology, and the ability to later specialise in the areas you most enjoy.
As a graduate of this course you will:
Understand the principles of psychology and gain a broad understanding of human behaviour
Learn how to critically analyse psychology problems and how to conduct scientific research
Apply your knowledge of psychology to the workplace, the community and society
NCI’s psychology course has been accredited by the
Psychological Society of Ireland (PSI)
. This approval enables graduates to apply for professional postgraduate courses in such specialisms as clinical, educational, occupational and counselling psychology. If you have an interest in human behaviour and wish to graduate with a degree that opens up whole range of career options then this course will be tremendously rewarding and valuable.
Who is the course for?
This course will appeal to students who:
are interested in studying human thoughts, feelings and behaviours by applying the scientific method, including experimentation, hypothesis testing and statistical analysis.
want a PSI-accredited degree.
Course Content
This programme is delivered in three stages over four years.
Year 1
Introduction to Psychology
Core Research Skills for Psychologists
Social Psychology 1 and 2
Introduction to Developmental Psychology
Coaching Psychology
Year 2
Cognitive Psychology
Introduction to Statistics
Learning and Behaviour
Psychopathology
Personality and Intelligence
Year 3
Applied Statistics
Biological Psychology
Applied Research Methods
Psychology Labs
Advanced Cognitive Psychology and Neuroscience
Students also complete 2 elective modules in Year 3, from the following:
Behavioural Science: Problem-Based Learning
Psychology of Gender
Critical Thinking
Multicultural Psychology
Year 4
Health Psychology
Advanced Biological Psychology
Behavioural Psychology
Applied Developmental Psychology
Final Project
Students also complete 4 elective modules in Year 4. Elective modules include:
Positive Psychology
Criminal Psychology
Child and Adolescent Mental Health
Psychology of Ageing
Cyberpsychology
Psychotraumatology
Workplace Psychology
Educational Psychology
Note: Availability of elective choices is subject to student numbers. The course content as shown above is for indicative purposes. All modules count towards the final award classification.
For information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Award and Progression
On completion you will receive a QQI BA (Honours) in Psychology at level 8 on the National Framework of Qualifications, accredited by PSI.
Upon successful completion of the BA (Hons) in Psychology, graduates who have acquired the appropriate entry requirements can apply to progress to postgraduate programmes at level 9 on the National Framework of Qualifications such as the
MA in HRM
or
MSc programmes
at National College of Ireland, as well as clinical, educational, occupational and counselling psychology at other venues.
Course Delivery
Blended - Livestream with some campus and/or campus stream classes, scheduled in advance.
Entry Requirements
Typically, applicants will have completed a full level 5 award, with applicants considered based on relevant work and other experience. Applicants under 21 will be assessed based on Leaving Certificate or equivalent.
For applicants whose first language is not English, please note the
English language entry requirements
.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Employment
The degree is recognised by the
Psychological Society of Ireland
and therefore allows graduates to apply for further graduate training within psychology in areas including:
Organisational Psychology
Educational Psychology
Forensic Psychology
Clinical Psychology
Counselling Psychology
Completion of the degree will also facilitate graduates in entering many other professions including human resources, recruitment, management, consultancy and marketing.
Indicative Schedule
Two evenings per week and some Saturday workshops in year 4.
Please note that exams can be scheduled during the morning, afternoon or evening Monday to Saturday.
Duration
4 years.
The first 3 years comprise 2 semesters of 13 weeks each per year. The final year comprises 3 semesters: 2 semesters of 13 weeks, and then a third semester running over the summer months.
There are no classes in the 3rd (summer) semester of year 4 – this semester is used for students to complete the write up of their final year research project..
Course Fee
The fee for this course is €4,400 per annum (fees revised annually).
You can spread the cost of this course with a
direct debit plan
.
Scholarships and Discounts
We offer a range of
scholarship opportunities and discount offers
available to both NCI and non-NCI graduates that will help you access this course.
Student Profile