BA (Honours) in Early Childhood Education and Care
Course Instance ID:
888514241
Description:
BA (Honours) in Early Childhood Education and Care
Duration:
4 years
NFQ Level:
Level 8
Brochure:
Download BA (Honours) in Early Childhood Education and Care brochure
NCI’s BA (Honours) in Early Childhood Education and Care provides a firm foundation in Early Childhood Education and Care (ECEC) to practice in a range of early childhood settings. During the course you will cover a range of subjects to gain a deep understanding of the holistic learning and development of babies and children from birth to six years of age. A specialised Education Play Lab at NCI provides opportunities for ‘hands on’ student learning.
This is a full-time course
delivered in the daytime
.
Why study Early Childhood Education and Care? Here are
5 big reasons
.
CAO Course Code:
NC030
This programme is approved by the
Qualifications Advisory Board
(instituted to review Level 7 and Level 8 Degree Programmes for the Early Learning and Care Sector) as meeting the requirements of the Professional Award Criteria and Guidelines standards. It is fully aligned and recognised as a professional qualification by the Department of Education (DE) and by the Department of Children, Equality, Disability, Inclusion and Youth (DECDIY).
Location
Start Date
IFSC Campus
14/09/2026
Apply Now
Course details
CAO Open Day Events
Join us at one of our CAO Open Day events for Leaving Certificate students where you will be able to chat with our lecturers and talk to students about their course experiences.
Wednesday, May 13th 2026 - Register Here
Saturday, June 27th 2026 - Register Here
About this Course
An essential and hugely beneficial key element of the programme is the strong emphasis placed on supervised professional practice placement in diverse Early Childhood settings.
More than 1,000 hours are specially allocated to supervised placement-related activities. Among other skills, such as observations and ethical practice, application of strategies in learning environments, the placement includes planning and developing curriculum for young children.
The final year provides an opportunity for students to combine their knowledge and skills in a practice-based capstone project.
Why choose NCI?
NCI has a tradition of working with educators. In CELL we believe that learning is lifelong and starts at birth. NCI has a long history of working with children and families through the Early Learning Initiative (ELI). Much has been learned through this initiative which has supported the development of this programme.
A well-designed progressive professional practice experience, which allows you to hone your skills in working with children.
A specialised play lab which allows you to investigate and experiment with resources and teaching materials in a safe environment before introducing them to children.
The teaching team is multi-disciplinary and brings to our learners Irish and International experts delivering up-to-date core knowledge and practice in early childhood as well as much required building of academic, digital, and technological skills.
This programme is approved by the
Qualifications Advisory Board
(instituted to review Level 7 and Level 8 Degree Programmes for the Early Learning and Care Sector) as meeting the requirements of the Professional Award Criteria and Guidelines standards.
View our taster session
to get a feel for the course.
Course Content
Year 1
Holistic Child Learning and Development*
Foundations of Early Childhood Education and Care*
Music, Movement, Art and Drama
Academic Foundations and Scholarship
Essential Legislation and Regulation in ECEC*
Child Health Nutrition and Wellbeing*
*Field visits to diverse early childhood settings will be integrated within all or some of these modules
Year 2
Core Pedagogies and Curriculum in ECEC
Dispositions and Dynamics of Behaviour in Children
Managing your Learning and Academic Practice
Supervised Professional Practice Placement: Observation and Reflection in ECEC Practice
Play and Creativity in ECEC
Diversity and Pluralism in Learning Language and Literacies
Year 3
Quality Assurance in ECEC Environments
Early Learning in a Digital World
Inquiry Learning – Design and Evaluation of Curriculum in ECEC
Supervised Professional Practice Placement: Application of Strategies in Learning Environments in ECEC Practice
The Child Family and Society – Stakeholders in ECEC
Leadership and Governance in ECEC Environments
Year 4
ECEC Research Methods and Inquiry
Social, Political and Cultural Contexts of ECEC
Working in Multi Professional Contexts
Personal and Professional Identity
Capstone ECEC Practice based Project
For information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Further information on this course can be found in our
Student Handbook
.
Course Structure and Award
The Bachelor of Arts Honours in Early Childhood Education and Care is a four-year honours degree, awarded by QQI at level 8 on the National Framework of Qualifications, with exit awards.
Each year has two semesters for a duration of twelve weeks of teaching per semester.
Year 1 includes field visits to early childhood settings and from year 2 students will gain practical experience through supervised professional high quality practice placements.
Who is the course for?
This course is ideally suited to those who would like to work with or for babies and young children and their families from birth to six in the ECEC sector. This course is also suitable if you would like to work as an early childhood inspector/evaluator, mentor, or curriculum trainer in
the ECEC sector.
Minimum Entry Requirements
Minimum entry requirements for the programme are H5 in two subjects, and O6/H7 in four subjects in the Leaving Certificate or equivalent, which must include English and Mathematics. Applicants from a PLC/further education course must have a full level 5/6 award, three distinctions and meet the CAO points requirement. Students with a major award in Early Learning and Care/Early Childhood Education and Care at NFQ level 6 will be eligible for advanced entry into year two of the programme, subject to certain criteria.
For applicants whose first language is not English, please note the
English language entry requirements
.
For international students, please visit NCI's
Your Country
section to view the specific entry requirements for your region.
Mature applicants
, applicants with a disability or those applying through the
DARE
or
HEAR
access schemes can find out more information on the
application process
.
Please note that exams can be scheduled during the morning, afternoon or evening Monday to Saturday.
QQI Level 5/6 Requirements
Students must obtain a minimum of 3 distinctions and a full award and meet the CAO points requirements to apply for this Level 8 course.
Visit our
QQI Applicants
page for further information.
Advanced Entry into Year 2
Applicants with a Major Award in Early Learning and Care/ Early Childhood Education and Care at NFQ level 6 may be eligible for an advanced entry into Year 2 of the programme. Advanced entry applicants should email admissions directly for the application link
admissions@ncirl.ie
or on 1800 221 721.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Professional Recognition
This programme is approved by the Qualifications Advisory Board (instituted to review Level 7 and Level 8 degree programmes for the Early Learning and Care sector) as meeting the requirements of the Professional Award Criteria and Guidelines standards.
Supervised Professional Placement
A core and highly valuable component of the programme is the strong emphasis on supervised professional practice placement across a variety of Early Childhood settings. Students are required to complete placements that span the full early childhood age range, from birth to five years, and engage with children from diverse backgrounds.
To ensure a broad and meaningful experience, placements must take place in a range of settings, including infant, toddler, and preschool environments. In the final year, students are also encouraged to consider placements in non-practice contexts such as policy development agencies, research centres, City and County Childcare Committees, and regulatory bodies.
Over 1,000 hours are dedicated to supervised placement activities, which include curriculum planning, observation, ethical practice, and the application of pedagogical strategies in real-world learning environments. Field visits are integral in Year 1, while supervised placements are central to Years 2 and 3. Year 4 culminates in a practice-based or practice-led capstone project, allowing students to synthesise and apply their accumulated knowledge and skills.
Download the
Placement Booklet
for further information.
Career Prospects
On completion, you will possess the skills to work as a room leader or supervisor, working directly with children, as a setting-based practitioner or manager, in advisory, mentorship, training and leadership roles such as Early Childhood Inspectors and Specialists in Better Start.
Government strategies have set out a vision for a graduate-led workforce in ECEC over the next decade.
These strategies include a new funding stream, Core Funding, which includes a graduate premium to be paid to services with graduate room leads for all ECEC age groups. These changes highlight the opportunities for graduates from this programme.
Further Study Options
Upon successful completion students may progress to the
Postgraduate Diploma in Educational Practice in Teaching for Further Education
at NCI or the NCI
Master of Arts in Educational Practice
or other postgraduate programmes.
Alternatively, you may progress into specialised graduate study areas such as, policy development, childhood studies or therapeutic applications of play, for example, play therapy.
Garda Vetting
Incoming students on the BA(Hons) in Early Childhood Education and Care programme must undergo Garda Vetting. The completed
Vetting Invitation Form (NVB1)
and supporting documentation must be submitted as soon as an application is completed. Download our
Guidelines on the Garda Vetting Process
for further information.
Programme offers will remain conditional until part 1 of the Garda Vetting process is completed.
Note:
Students will not be permitted to begin their placement until their vetting application is processed and approved in accordance with NCI’s Student Vetting policy.
CAO Points
2025 CAO Points Guide :* 230
*For each course we have given a guideline based on our points over the past 3 years. This is a guide only, points vary each year.
The CAO course code is NC030.
Sports Scholarship
Did you know you can apply for a
Sports Scholarship
at NCI?
Watch this video
to hear from our current sports scholars Stephen Achukwu (basketball) and Adam Leonard (football):
Course Fees
The BA (Honours) in Early Childhood Education and Care is a self-funded course that does not qualify under the Free Fees Initiative.
The fee for this course is €4,800 per annum, payable by the student.
Students on this course may qualify for the
Student Grant Scheme
.
International Students' Fees
Please note that effective from September 2026, the programme fee for International students is €12,000 per year.
For more information on international fees, please visit
International Fees & Funding
and
International Scholarships
.
Learn more about studying at NCI as an
international student
.
Student Profile