CIPD Courses
NCI is the country’s largest provider of Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) graduates.
Find a course
All course types
Apprenticeships
CAO
Full-time
International
Online
Part-time
Postgraduate
Springboard+
Undergraduate
CIPD Courses at NCI
The Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) is the professional body for HR and people development in Ireland.
CIPD Ireland and National College of Ireland have partnered together to develop and deliver a number of human resource management, learning and development and people management courses. These courses lead to membership of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD), a sought-after accreditation in the HRM community.
These programmes sit at Level 7 on the national framework of qualifications (NFQ), validated by QQI.
Courses Starting in February 2026
Upgrade your HR Career with a CIPD qualification, with programmes starting in early 2026.
(CIPD) Diploma in Professional Human Resource Practice
The Diploma covers Applied Employment Law, Reward and Performance, Employment Relations, Talent Acquisition plus Organisational Performance & Culture.
Course Details
(CIPD) Certificate in Professional Human Resource Practice
This part-time HR course is ideal for those working in HR, wishing to develop a HR career or managers wanting a better knowledge of people management.
Course Details
CIPD Accredited Programmes
NCI is the country’s largest provider of Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) graduates. The programmes below are in line with the CIPD Profession Map allowing automatic eligibility for Membership of CIPD.
(CIPD) Diploma in Professional Learning & Organisational Development
This programme covers Learning Design, Facilitation and Digital & Blended Learning for all those involved in the development of people.
(CIPD) Certificate in Professional Learning & Organisational Development
The programme is for those involved in training, learning, organisational development and talent development in organisations or those wishing to move into that career.
Certificate in Professional Employment Law & Practice
This certificate will give students the skills and knowledge needed in managing difficult employment situations at work and changing the working climate.
HR Courses Leading to CIPD Membership
BA (Honours) in HRM Strategy and Practice
This degree provides learners with an in-depth knowledge of Human Resource Management (HRM), its core theories and application within the organisation.
Postgraduate Diploma in Arts in Human Resource Management
This course uniquely allows students to study over three consecutive semesters within one calendar year to receive this human resource management award.
MA in Human Resource Management - Part-Time
The part-time version of this programme allows students to study towards their human resource management qualification in the evening while working full-time.
MA in Human Resource Management - Full-Time
This intensive postgraduate course in human resource management has been developed in consultation with the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD).
Get in Touch
If you have any questions about our CIPD courses or any of our human resource management programmes, get in touch with our Admissions Team by emailing admissions@ncirl.ie.
Contact Us