BA (Honours) in Early Childhood Education and Care
Course Instance ID:
888513996
Description:
BA (Honours) in Early Childhood Education and Care
Duration:
4 years
NFQ Level:
Level 8
Brochure:
Download BA (Honours) in Early Childhood Education and Care brochure
The Bachelor of Arts (Honours) in Early Childhood Education and Care is a four-year programme, designed for people who are interested in pursuing opportunities or upskilling, in the Early Childhood Education and Care (ECEC) sector.
This is a
full-time evening delivery programme
with online classes two evenings a week and some Saturdays on campus.
Course details
About this Course
The aim of the BA (Hons) in Early Childhood Education and Care is to provide learners with a firm foundation in Early Childhood Education and Care so as to practice as Professional Early Childhood Educators in a range of ECEC environments. As such, the programme aims to present learners with a comprehensive foundation in the principles and pillars of professional practice of early childhood education and care in Ireland and internationally, underpinned by a solid theoretical framework.
The course incorporates core topics including holistic child learning and development, essential legislation and regulatory practices, early learning in a digital world, pedagogical practice in ECEC, working with parents and families, and in multiprofessional contexts. It also includes aspects related to quality assurance. Students are encouraged to reflect, inquire and investigate a range of theoretical and practical pedagogical approaches to learning and development in ECEC.
The final year Capstone Project enables students to develop skills in researching Early Childhood Practice. Students will be enabled as innovators and leaders in the ECEC sector.
This programme is approved by the
Qualifications Advisory Board
(instituted to review Level 7 and Level 8 Degree Programmes for the Early Learning and Care Sector) as meeting the requirements of the Professional Award Criteria and Guidelines standards.
*Applicants with a Major Award at NFQ level 6 may be eligible for an advanced entry into Year 2 of the programme – see the "Advanced Entry into Year 2" tab for further information.
Who is the course for?
This course is ideally suited to those currently working with babies, toddlers and young children from birth to six, who wish to upskill. You could be working in a pre-school, creche, Naionrai, or home-based setting as a child minder or home visitor.
The programme is also for those working in regulatory bodies such as TUSLA (the child and family support agency) and Better Start or other early childhood intervention programmes.
We encourage school leavers and mature learners returning to education to apply.
If you are interested in learning more about this programme, then check out "
Why Study Early Childhood Education?
".
Entry Requirements
Minimum entry requirements for the programme are H5 in two subjects, and O6/H7 in four subjects in the Leaving Certificate or equivalent, which must include English and Mathematics. Applicants from a PLC/further education course must have a full level 5/6 award, three distinctions and meet the CAO points requirement. Students with a major award in Early Learning and Care/Early Childhood Education and Care at NFQ level 6 will be eligible for advanced entry into year two of the programme, subject to certain criteria.
For applicants whose first language is not English, please note the
English language entry requirements
.
Mature applicants
, applicants with a disability or those applying through the
DARE
or
HEAR
access schemes can find out more information on the
application process
.
Please note that exams can be scheduled during the morning, afternoon or evening Monday to Saturday.
QQI Level 5/6 Requirements
Students must obtain a minimum of 3 distinctions and a full award and meet the CAO points requirements to apply for this Level 8 course.
Visit our
QQI Applicants
page for further information.
Advanced Entry into Year 2
Applicants with a Major Award in Early Learning and Care/ Early Childhood Education and Care at NFQ level 6 may be eligible for an advanced entry into Year 2 of the programme.
Students interested in the advanced entry route for September 2025 can
apply here
.
Please note
that applicants to year 2 of this programme should hold a Major Award in Early Learning and Care/Early Childhood Education and Care at NFQ level 6 should have obtained an
overall Merit grade
.
Indicative Schedule
Monday and Wednesday 18:00 - 21:30 livestream and 4 Saturdays 09.30 - 14.00 on campus.
In addition, students are required to be in supervised placement in Year 2 and Year 3. The schedule for supervised practice will depend on placement setting’s schedules.
Professional Recognition
This programme is approved by Qualifications Advisory Board (instituted to review Level 7 and Level 8 degree programmes for the Early Learning and Care sector) as meeting the requirements of the Professional Award Criteria and Guidelines standards.
The programme links in with the Nurturing Skills Workforce Plan 2022-28, which aims to professionalise Irish Early Childhood Education and Care, through a graduate led workforce. These changes are guided by ‘First Five’ - Whole of Government Strategy for Babies, Young Children and their Families (2019).
Supervised Professional Placement
A core and highly valuable component of the programme is the strong emphasis on supervised professional practice placement across a variety of Early Childhood settings. Students are required to complete placements that span the full early childhood age range—from birth to five years—and engage with children from diverse backgrounds, including those with Early Learning and Care (ELC) needs.
To ensure a broad and meaningful experience, placements must take place in a range of settings, including infant, toddler, and preschool environments. In the final year, students are also encouraged to consider placements in non-practice contexts such as policy development agencies, research centres, City and County Childcare Committees, and regulatory bodies.
A strong emphasis is placed on supervised placement activities. These include curriculum planning, observation, ethical practice, and the application of pedagogical strategies in real-world learning environments. Field visits are an essential component in Year 1, while supervised placements are central to Years 2 and 3. Year 4 culminates in a practice-based or practice-led capstone project, allowing students to synthesise and apply their accumulated knowledge and skills.
Evening students who are currently employed in early childhood settings must submit a placement proposal outlining how they intend to meet the programme’s placement requirements. Specifically, they must demonstrate how they will gain supervised experience across both key age groups:
Birth to 2 years and 8 months
2 years and 8 months to 6 years
This can be achieved through block placements during term times or summer months in alternative settings that differ from their usual place of employment, ensuring exposure to a broader range of age groups and learning environments.
Download the
Placement Booklet
for further information.
Career Prospects
Graduates will possess the skills and competencies to work as lead educators or supervisors, working directly with children, setting managers, advisory, mentorship, training and leadership roles. Further specialisation in play and digital competence can open up related careers in Play Therapy; and developing digital technology for ECEC (robotics, learning platforms, apps etc).
‘First 5’: A Whole–of-Government Strategy for Babies, Young Children and their Families (2018) suggests a reform in the Early Learning and Care Sector moving towards a graduate-led workforce. The ECCE Scheme (free preschool years) also offers a higher capitation fee to Early Childhood Education and Care service providers where all leaders hold a Bachelor of Arts (Ord) Degree in Childhood/Early Education (Level 7 on the NFQ or equivalent) and have three years of experience in the sector. This and the recent Core Funding initiative of the Irish Govt indicates a government commitment towards a graduate-led workforce in ECEC.
Award and Progression
The Bachelor of Arts (Honours) in Early Childhood Education and Care (240 credits) is awarded by QQI at NFQ Level 8 on the National Framework of Qualifications. Students who successfully complete this course may progress to the
Postgraduate Diploma in Educational Practice in Teaching for Further Education
or the
Master of Arts in Educational Practice
.
The programme includes three related exit awards
BA (Ordinary) in Early Childhood Education and Care (Level 7 on NFQ) (180 credits)
Higher Certificate in Early Childhood Education and Care (Level 6 on NFQ) (120 credits)
Certificate in Early Childhood Education and Care (Level 6 on NFQ) (60 credits)
Students may exit after Year 3, Year 2 or Year 1 and receive the relevant awards.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Course Content
Year 1
Holistic Child Learning and Development*
Foundations of Early Childhood Education and Care*
Music, Movement, Art and Drama
Academic Foundations and Scholarship
Essential Legislation and Regulation in ECEC*
Child Health Nutrition and Wellbeing*
*Field visits to diverse Early Childhood settings will be integrated within these theory modules
Year 2
Core Pedagogies and Curriculum in ECEC
Dispositions and Dynamics of Behaviour in Children
Managing Your Learning and Academic Practice
Diversity and Pluralism in Learning Language and Literacies
Play and Creativity in ECEC
Placement: Observation and Reflection in ECEC Practice
Year 3
Quality Assurance in ECEC Environments
Early Learning in a Digital World
Inquiry Learning – Design and Evaluation of Curriculum in ECEC
The Child Family and Society – Stakeholders in ECEC
Leadership and Governance in ECEC Environments
Placement: Application of Strategies in Learning Environments in ECEC Practice
Year 4
ECEC Inquiry and Research Methods
Social, Political and Cultural Contexts of ECEC
Working in Multi Professional Contexts
Personal and Professional Identity
Capstone ECEC Practice-based Project
This programme is approved by the Qualifications Advisory Board (instituted to review level 7 and level 8 degree programmes for the Early Learning and Care Sector) as meeting the requirements of the Professional Award Criteria and Guidelines standards
For information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Further information on this course can be found in our
Student Handbook
.
Course Delivery
Blended:
Livestream
with some
Campus
and/or
Campus Stream
classes scheduled in advance.
There is also a
full-time day delivery programme
.
Garda Vetting
Incoming students on the BA(Hons) in Early Childhood Education and Care programme must undergo Garda Vetting. Garda Vetting is part of the admissions process. Garda Vetting applications must be submitted to NCI prior to commencing the programme. Guidelines on this process are provided by the Admissions Office.
The completed
Vetting Invitation Form (NVB1)
and supporting documentation must be submitted as soon as an application is completed. Download our
Guidelines on the Garda Vetting Process
for further information.
Programme offers will remain conditional until part 1 of the Garda Vetting process is completed.
Note:
Students will not be permitted to begin their placement until their vetting application is processed and approved in accordance with NCI’s Student Vetting policy.
Duration
4 calendar years
Course Fee
Year 1- €2,370
Year 2 - €2,825
Year 3 - €4,100
Year 4 - €4,100
(Fees revised annually)
You can spread the cost of this course with a
direct debit plan
.
Scholarships and Discounts
We offer a range of
scholarship opportunities and discount offers
available to both NCI and non-NCI graduates that will help you access this course.
Funding
The BA (Honours) in Early Childhood Education and Care is a four-year Honours Degree programme, approved by QQI for full-time delivery with 60 ECTS credits per academic year.
The course meets the requirements as an approved full-time course under the
Student Grant Scheme (SUSI)
.
Student Profile