Postgraduate
How to apply
For our postgraduate courses you can apply online by visiting the
course page
of your chosen course and clicking on the 'Apply Online' button.
International applicants
NCI welcomes applications from overseas students who satisfy the appropriate
admission requirements
. A certificate of
competence in English
is required.
Registration
Registration for all new part-time students at NCI will be held during the week preceding the beginning of the academic year. Registration for all returning students will take place by post. Students will not be registered until a payment of half the full course fee has been received. Student cards will then be issued by post to the correspondence address supplied.
It is your responsibility to notify us of any change in the details you have supplied.
Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning
Applicants who wish to apply for entry to a programme for which they may not necessarily meet the minimum entry requirements can apply to the College under the
RPEL policy
.
What happens next
Your application will be acknowledged within 5 working days and processed. You may then be called for interview. You will be notified by mail if you have been offered a place. At that time you will be provided with details concerning fees, deposits and deadlines.
Receipt of an application does not guarantee a place.
Orientation
NCI organises an Orientation Programme for all incoming students during the week preceding the beginning of the academic year. The programme is designed to give new students the opportunity to get to know more about the college and its facilities and support services before starting fully into the academic year.
The programme incorporates briefings with Course Directors and the various support services within the college. Workshops of interest to students on topics such as Learning at Third Level and Budgeting also form part of the programme.
In addition, an Information Centre with stands offering information and advice on a wide range of issues including accommodation, sport and recreation, clubs and societies, Student's Union, entertainment, student health and bank facilities will operate throughout the programme.