Higher Certificate in Data Science
Course Instance ID:
830319246
Description:
Higher Certificate in Data Science
Duration:
2 years
NFQ Level:
Level 6
Brochure:
Download Higher Certificate in Data Science brochure
NCI’s Higher Certificate in Data Science uses a blend of computer science and data science to provide you with the knowledge and skills necessary to carry out data modelling, data management and data analysis activities, and to interpret and communicate that data to a variety of audiences.
Here are
10 big reasons why you should consider studying data science
.
CAO Course Code:
NC105
International Students
If you are an international student interested in applying for this programme, please click on the link below:
September 2026 - Apply Here
Course details
CAO Open Day Events
Join us at one of our CAO Open Day events for Leaving Certificate students where you will be able to chat with our lecturers and talk to students about their course experiences.
Wednesday, May 13th 2026 - Register Here
Saturday, June 27th 2026 - Register Here
About this Course
The programme gives you the Mathematics, programming and problem-solving skills required to exploit data in addressing real-world problems. You will also develop your problem solving, teamwork, critical thinking and communication skills.
Graduates of this course can identify, clean, integrate, select, transform, and mine different types of datasets with consideration of ethical, privacy and data protection issues, in order to summarise and present new knowledge; design, implement and document algorithmic solutions that demonstrate use of processes, methodologies, tools and techniques that solve known problems; and utilise statistical analysis, modelling, data mining and machine learning tools and techniques to analyse datasets.
Course Content
Year 1
Semester 1
Computational Thinking
Discrete Mathematics
Programming Concepts
Introduction to Data Science & Artificial Intelligence
Web Design & Development
Semester 2
Computer Architecture
Introduction to Data Modelling and Databases
The Computing Industry
Introduction to Programming
Operating Systems
Year 2
Semester 1
Advanced Databases
Data Programming
Object Oriented Programming
Web Application Development
Statistics I
Semester 2
Innovation and Business Entrepreneurship
Data Mining and Machine Learning
Data Visualisation
Linear Algebra
Statistics II
For information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Course Structure and Award
This two-year Higher Certificate course is run over four semesters with continuous assessment held throughout the course and examinations at the end of each semester.
On completion, you will receive a QQI Higher Certificate in Data Science at level 6 on the National Framework of Qualifications.
Who is the course for?
This course will be particularly appealing to students who are unsure about enrolling in a degree programme initially and see the Higher Certificate as a progression route to a degree at a later stage. The course is for school leavers, mature students and graduates of QQI level 5/6 programmes.
Further Study Options
Upon successful completion of the Higher Certificate in Data Science, graduates can gain entry directly into year three of the
BSc (Hons) in Data Science
at NCI.
Career Prospects
This course will equip you with the technical computer science and data science skills to build a successful career as a technician in the areas of computing, data management and data analysis.
According to a
Higher Education Outcomes Report
released by the CSO, ICT graduates in 2010 had the highest median earnings 10 years after graduation compared to other sectors based on the analysis of the destinations of students who graduated between 2010 and 2019 .
Minimum Entry Requirements
Minimum entry requirements are a grade of O6/H7 or above in five subjects. A minimum of grade O4/H7 must be obtained in Mathematics. A minimum of grade O6/H7 must be obtained in English or Irish. These requirements are subject to QQI validation and will be confirmed in the coming weeks.
For applicants whose first language is not English, please note the
English language entry requirements
.
Mature applicants
, applicants with a disability or those applying through the
DARE
or
HEAR
access schemes can find out more information on the
application process
.
Applicants from a PLC/further education course must meet the CAO points requirement, have a full level 5/6 award, and achieve three distinctions. One distinction must be held in one of the following modules: B20029 or C20139 or C20174 or C20175 or N33029 or 4N2138 or 5N0554 or 5N0556 or 5N16654 or 5N1833 or 5N18396 or 5N2066 or 6N3395 (or O4/H7 in LC Mathematics). Visit our
QQI Applicants page
for further information.
Please note that exams can be scheduled during the morning, afternoon or evening Monday to Saturday.
Laptop Requirements
While access to a suitable PC or laptop is recommended for all students, it is not required for full-time students on this programme to bring their own device.
The recommended configuration for laptops is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
CAO Points
2025 CAO Points Guide :* 200
*For each course we have given a guideline based on our points over the past 3 years. This is a guide only, points vary each year.
The CAO course code is NC105.
Sports Scholarship
Did you know you can apply for a
Sports Scholarship
at NCI?
Watch this video
to hear from our current sports scholars Stephen Achukwu (basketball) and Adam Leonard (football):
Free Fees
This course qualifies under the
Free Fees Initiative
and the
Student Grant Scheme
.
International Students' Fees
The fee for this course for international students is €14,000. For more information on international fees, please visit
International Fees & Funding
and
International Scholarships
.
Learn more about studying at NCI as an
international student
.
Student Profile