BSc (Honours) in Data Science
Course Instance ID:
830319191
Description:
BSc (Honours) in Data Science
Duration:
4 years
NFQ Level:
Level 8
Brochure:
Download BSc (Honours) in Data Science brochure
NCI’s BSc (Honours) in Data Science is practical in nature, providing you with knowledge of the way data science can solve real problems and facilitate business decisions based on evidence. Due to the shortage of suitably qualified data science professionals in Ireland and internationally, this degree offers exceptional job prospects for graduates.
Here are
10 big reasons why you should consider studying data science
.
CAO Course Code:
NC025
International Students
If you are an international student interested in applying for this programme, please click on the link below:
September 2026 - Apply Here
Course details
About this Course
The course is industry-focused with options for students to gain real world experience through Service Learning, Work Placement or International Exchange (Erasmus) for work or study in the third year. NCI students are highly sought after and complete their work experience in companies such as Microsoft, Eir, AIB, Irish Life, Vodafone, Intel, Citi, SAP and Workday.
Graduates of this course can apply data transformation, modelling, data mining and machine learning techniques to analyse and derive new knowledge and insight from data; understand how to design and implement data science algorithms and applications that solve real-world problems; can effectively visualise and communicate the results of data analysis to support business decision making; and are able to adopt appropriate professional, ethical, legal, security and privacy principles in relation to data science solutions.
Dr. Arghir-Nicolae Moldovan, Programme Director of the BSc (Honours) in Data Science at National College of Ireland, discusses the structure of the course, the benefits of studying data science, the employment opportunities the course offers along with the support the college provides for our students in the
video
below.
CAO Open Day Events
Join us at one of our CAO Open Day events for Leaving Certificate students where you will be able to chat with our lecturers and talk to students about their course experiences.
Wednesday, May 13th 2026 - Register Here
Saturday, June 27th 2026 - Register Here
Course Content
Year 1
Semester 1
Computational Thinking
Discrete Mathematics
Programming Concepts
Introduction to Data Science & Artificial Intelligence
Web Design & Development
Semester 2
Computer Architecture
Introduction to Data Modelling & Databases
The Computing Industry
Introduction to Programming
Operating Systems
Year 2
Semester 1
Advanced Databases
Object Oriented Programming
Data Programming
Web Application Development
Statistics I
Semester 2
Innovation & Business Entrepreneurship
Data Mining & Machine Learning
Data Visualisation
Linear Algebra
Statistics II
Year 3
Semester 1
Artificial Intelligence
Advanced Machine Learning
Data Architecture
Data Warehousing & Business Intelligence
Scalable Data Analytics
Semester 2
Students will choose one of the following options:
Work Placement
Academic Internship
Service Learning
International Exchange
Year 4
Semester 1
Final Year Project
Governance, Ethics, Security & Sustainability
Neural Networks & Prescriptive Analytics
Text Analytics & Natural Language Processing
Semester 2
Final Year Project
Applied Deep Learning
IoT Real Time Analytics
Time Series & Financial Analytics
Electives may include prerequisites, are subject to change, and availability is subject to class sizes.
For information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Who is the course for?
This course will appeal to students who are interested in developing computing and numeracy skills and pursue a career in data science.
The course is for school leavers, mature students, and graduates of QQI level 5/6 programmes who wish to embark on a course of full-time study.
Course Structure and Award
This four-year undergraduate course is run over eight semesters with continuous assessment held throughout and examinations at the end of each semester. On completion you will receive a QQI BSc (Honours) Degree in Data Science at level 8 on the National Framework of Qualifications. The course also prepares students for industry recognised certification in leading technologies.
Work Experience
The course is industry focused with a six-month work placement in the third year, which will significantly improve your skills and enhance your employability.
NCI students are highly sought after and complete their work experience in companies like Microsoft, Eir, AIB, Irish Life, Vodafone, Intel, Citi, SAP and Workday.
Career Prospects
Graduates from the BSc (Honours) in Data Science go on to work with a variety of organisations including multinationals, financial services and professional services companies. Related data science roles include data scientist, business intelligence analyst, customer insight lead, risk analyst, knowledge engineer, and data programmer.
According to a
Higher Education Outcomes Report
released by the CSO, ICT graduates in 2010 had the highest median earnings 10 years after graduation compared to other sectors based on the analysis of the destinations of students who graduated between 2010 and 2019
Further Study Options
Upon successful completion of the BSc (Honours) in Data Science, graduates can progress to postgraduate courses in computing at level 9 on the National Framework of Qualifications such as the
MSc in Data Analytics
,
MSc in Cybersecurity
,
MSc in Cloud Computing
,
MSc in Fintech
or the
MSc in Artificial Intelligence
at National College of Ireland.
CAO Points
2025 CAO Points Guide :* 260
*For each course we have given a guideline based on our points over the past 3 years. This is a guide only, points vary each year.
The CAO course code is NC025.
Minimum Entry Requirements
Minimum entry requirements are a grade H5 or above in two higher level subjects together with a minimum of O6/H7 in four other subjects. A minimum of grade O4/H7 must be obtained in Mathematics. A minimum of grade O6/H7 must be obtained in English or Irish. Applicants who have successfully completed the QQI Level 6 Software Development (6M0691) course may be eligible for advanced entry to year 2 of this programme.
For applicants whose first language is not English, please note the
English language entry requirements
.
For international students, please visit NCI's
Your Country
section to view the specific entry requirements for your region.
Mature applicants
, applicants with a disability or those apply through the
DARE
or
HEAR
access schemes can find out more information on the
application process
.
Applicants from a PLC/further education course must meet the CAO points requirement, have a full level 5/6 award, and achieve one distinction. The distinction must be held in one of the following modules: B20029 or C20139 or C20174 or C20175 or N33029 or 4N2138 or 5N0554 or 5N0556 or 5N16654 or 5N1833 or 5N18396 or 5N2066 or 6N3395 (or O4/H7 in LC Mathematics). Visit our
QQI Applicants page
for further information.
Please note that exams can be scheduled during the morning, afternoon or evening Monday to Saturday.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Free Fees
This course qualifies under the
Free Fees Initiative
and the
Student Grant Scheme
.
Sports Scholarship
Did you know you can apply for a
Sports Scholarship
at NCI?
Watch this video
to hear from our current sports scholars Stephen Achukwu (basketball) and Adam Leonard (football):
International Students' Fees
Please note that effective from September 2026, the programme fee for International students is €14,000 per year.
For more information on international fees, please visit
International Fees & Funding
and
International Scholarships
.
Learn more about studying at NCI as an
international student
.
For domestic students applying through the CAO, this course applies under the free fees initiative. For further information, please see
Free Fees Initiative
.
Student Profile