Certificate in Sustainable Business Leadership
Course Instance ID:
910715126
Description:
Certificate in Sustainable Business Leadership
Duration:
6 weeks
NFQ Level:
Level 9
Brochure:
Download Certificate in Sustainable Business Leadership brochure
This course gives a deep understanding of how to address sustainability in any organisation, examining the process by which firms integrate environmental concerns into their decision making. The course gives detailed insight into sustainability and the different perspectives on the concept. Students will study the global trends driving sustainability and be able to apply sustainable leadership principles. In undertaking this programme, you will be guided to construct an actionable sustainability plan for an organisation
This course is subject to QQI validation.
Course details
Course Content
Perspectives on sustainability
Leadership, change management and corporate governance in sustainability
Sustainability – Accountability, risk and legal framework
The implementation of sustainability
For more information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Award
These certificates are awarded by QQI at level 9 (5 ECTS) on the National Framework of Qualifications.
Entry Requirements
Applicants are required to hold a minimum of a 2.2 honours degree in either a cognate or non-cognate area at level 8 on the National Framework of Qualifications.
The college operates a
Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL)
scheme meaning non-graduates with extensive professional experience and other prior qualifications may also be considered for the course.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Course Delivery
Blended delivery: online delivery with one in-person half day introductory session.
Please note that exams can be scheduled during the morning, afternoon or evening Monday to Saturday.
Duration
30 hours contact time: 6 hours per week over 5 weeks.
Course Fee
€950
(Fees revised annually)
Student Profile