MSc in Cybersecurity
Course Instance ID:
1054434005
Description:
MSc in Cybersecurity
Duration:
2 years
NFQ Level:
Level 9
Brochure:
Download MSc in Cybersecurity brochure
Please note that this programme is run through NCI and funded by Technology Ireland ICT Skillnet.
Applications for January 2027 are now open. All applications for this programme must be made through the
Technology Ireland ICT Skillnet website
.
Visit the Course Fees tab below for further information on the subsidised course fees available through Technology Ireland ICT Skillnet
.
Course details
About this Course
Cybersecurity is an essential need for a modern society in which information technology and services pervade every aspect of our lives. Cybersecurity has the fastest growth rate among all areas of IT, with the labour market encountering a severe workforce shortage in this field.
The aim of this programme is to provide learners with essential expert technical knowledge, competence and skills of the most important technical concepts of cybersecurity and how they are applied in areas such as device, network, cloud, web and application security.
The course is technical and practical in nature, uniquely embedded in industry, and develops in-depth expertise of core technical topics within the cybersecurity area. The programme emphasises the development of technical and research skills in the cybersecurity area through analysis, investigation, requirements elicitation, problem solving, and teamwork. In addition, emphasis is placed on the study of the latest appropriate technology and techniques necessary for the cultivation of advanced investigative skills.
Who is the course for?
This course is ideal for ICT professionals or graduates with an honours degree in computing or in a cognate area (STEM) who wish to develop a career as a cybersecurity professional; to take a leading technical or managerial role; to progress faster in their employment or to apply the knowledge in their current role. Candidates who do not hold a computing degree and are currently working in the IT sector may be considered, based on relevant academic qualifications or extensive work experience.
As a graduate of this course, you will be able to:
Critically assess and evaluate ethical, legal, privacy, sustainable, and governance issues associated with the management of data assets in the cybersecurity domain.
Communicate effectively complex and advanced cybersecurity concepts to a range of audiences in both written and verbal media.
Apply advanced security knowledge and utilise practical skills and technologies to design and implement cybersecurity solutions that address business and technical problems.
Make decisions and address security requirements through analytical thinking, communication, and interaction.
Analyse, identify, and document measures to address vulnerabilities, risks, weaknesses, and other safety aspects within a given cybersecurity context.
Identify knowledge gaps and undertake self-learning to acquire new knowledge and meet the requirements of the rapidly developing and expanding cybersecurity industry.
Conduct independent research in the cybersecurity area and formulate and implement novel ideas by applying the latest research methodologies and industry practices.
Career Prospects
Several reports indicate shortage of skills and strong demand for cybersecurity professionals. The Expert Group on Future Skills Needs identified cybersecurity as a highgrowth area that requires significant support for skills development.
The State of the Cybersecurity Sector in Ireland 2024 Report indicates that there are over 530 companies offering cybersecurity services or have employees in internal cybersecurity roles, and that there is robust employment growth in cybersecurity.
Considering the high demand of various types of jobs in the cybersecurity domain that currently exist in the market, graduates from this course may work in the following roles:
Information security analyst
Secure application developer
Cybersecurity tester
Risk analyst / consultant
Cyber incident responder
Cloud security analyst
Security researcher, etc.
Course Content
Core Modules:
Network Security and Penetration Testing
Security Fundamentals
Data Governance, Ethics and Sustainability
Cloud Architectures and Security
Cryptography and Blockchain
AI/ML in Cybersecurity
Business Resilience and Incident Management
Elective Modules
Secure Web Development
Forensics and eDiscovery
Secure Application Development
Malware Analysis
Note that there are dependencies between secure development electives. To study Secure Application Development in semester 2, students must have studied Secure Web Development in semester 1. However, all students can elect to study Malware Analysis in semester 2.
Research Elective
Practicum OR
Internship
Elective modules are subject to availability and a minimum number of students required to run a module.
Assessment
The course will be assessed with a blend of continuous assessments and/or project work and/ or exams. This varies between modules but typically assessment is 40% continuous assessment and 60% project or exam.
For more information on the modules taught on this course view our
module descriptors
.
Award and Progression
The Master of Science in Cybersecurity is awarded by QQI at level 9 on the National Framework of Qualifications (NFQ). Students who successfully complete this course may progress to a major award at level 10 on the NFQ. Students may also elect to exit early with a Postgraduate Diploma in Science in Cybersecurity at level 9.
Entry Requirements
An honours (level 8) primary degree in computing or a cognate area with a 2.2 award or higher. Cognate area means a STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) degree that also has taught programming/application development related modules. Candidates are expected to have programming ability, which can be demonstrated through transcripts, recognised certifications, and/ or relevant work experience. An assessment and/or interview may be conducted to ascertain suitability, if necessary, for candidates who do not meet the normal academic requirements.
The College operates a
Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL)
scheme meaning applicants who do not meet the normal academic requirements may be considered based on relevant work and other experience. This may be assessed using a portfolio of learning, demonstration of work produced, and an interview. The programming ability of the applicant will also be assessed.
Non-English speaking applicants must demonstrate fluency in the English language as demonstrated by an IELTS academic score of at least 6.0 or equivalent. Visit our
English Language Requirements
page for further information.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Indicative Schedule
Two evenings per week 18.00 - 22.00 and every second Saturdays.
Please note that in some instances exams may take place in the daytime, evening, and/or at weekends.
Course Delivery
Blended - Livestream with some on-campus stream classes, scheduled in advance.
Duration
This course runs over 2 years; 4 semesters with a final internship/practicum.
Course Fee
Fees
Full course fee: €3,875 per year
Technology Ireland ICT Skillnet grant: €725 per year
Subsidised course fee: €3,150* per year
Subsidised fees are only available to eligible applicants*.
*Funding Eligibility
Applicants must be working in a private or commercial semi-state organisation registered in the Republic of Ireland (Business, Consultant, Freelancer) to avail of the grant-aided fees. As a government-funded training network, Technology Ireland ICT Skillnet can only support those meeting these criteria.
Applicants who do not meet ICT Skillnet's funding criteria may in some cases be able to apply and pay the full fee per year if there are available places. This includes public sector, unemployed and those in charitable organisations.
Contact Technology Ireland ICT Skillnet
for more information.
Technology Ireland ICT Skillnet
This programme starting in January 2027 is part-funded by Technology Ireland ICT Skillnet.
Part-funded fees are only available for eligible candidates working in private or commercial semi-state organisations in the Republic of Ireland. If you are interested in applying, please submit your CV on the
Technology Ireland ICT Skillnet website
.
Technology Ireland ICT Skillnet is a Government-backed business-support network, connecting teams and individuals from small and large companies to highly subsidised and cutting edge training in the latest technologies driving business development. Technology Ireland ICT Skillnet is promoted by Technology Ireland, an Ibec business association, and funded by Skillnet Ireland through the National Training Fund.
Student Profile