BA (Honours) in Recruitment Practice
Course Instance ID:
890767315
Description:
BA (Honours) in Recruitment Practice
Duration:
3 years
NFQ Level:
Level 8
The new BA (Honours) in Recruitment Practice is a three-year apprenticeship degree created in partnership with the
Employment and Recruitment Federation (ERF)
. This recruitment apprenticeship programme is the first of its kind in Ireland and there are no other Level 8 degree programmes in recruitment or qualifications in recruitment that are on the National Framework of Qualifications.
This programme seeks to provide the appropriate education and training to allow successful graduates be registered with SOLAS as a Recruitment Executive apprentice. The programme will provide an alternative talent pipeline to the recruitment industry and offer a new career path for candidates. The course is open to mature students, school leavers, current recruiters and anyone looking for a career change.
How to Apply
If you would like to apply for this course, please send expression of interest to Janice O'Rourke, Head of L&D with the Employment and Recruitment Federation:
janice@erfireland.com
.
Course details
About this Course
The development of this apprenticeship arose from industry consultation about the needs of the recruitment sector’s entry level employees and the needs of the recruitment employers for this level of employee. Recruitment offers a very attractive career path and organisations hiring staff are continuing to undergo massive change in their quest to be competitive and profitable.
This programme seeks to provide the appropriate education and training to allow successful graduates be registered with SOLAS as a Recruitment Executive apprentice. The programme will provide an alternative talent pipeline to the recruitment industry and offer a new career path for candidates.
On successful completion of the proposed apprenticeship, a person in the occupation of Recruitment Executive will independently be capable of carrying out complex tasks, critically analysing industry data, Identifying skill gaps and implement solutions.
As a graduate of this course you will:
Have specialist knowledge in full recruitment operations to deliver in demand talent to hiring companies required to work as a Recruitment Executive
Have developed recruitment, sales, marketing and negotiation skills
Be able to achieve recruitment revenue, client, candidate & development targets
Be able to demonstrate expertise in candidate search, engagement and matching candidates to appropriate career opportunities
Who is the course for?
The BA (Honours) in Recruitment Practice is accessible to school leavers, current recruiters and anyone interested in changing career. Entry to the Apprenticeship programme is subject to an interview with the participating employer. The Apprentice will sign up with an employer and this is NOT transferable. If the Apprentice leaves this employer, they will not be eligible to join with another employer and will not remain in the apprenticeship scheme.
Course Content
Year 1
Introduction to Recruitment Practice
ICT Skills for Recruitment
Career Management Skills
Sales and Negotiating Skills
Work-Based Learning
Year 2
Employment Law for Recruitment
Candidate Strategy
Finance for Recruitment
Business Development & Customer Relations
Work-Based Learning
Year 3
Management and Behaviour in Organisations
Equality & Ethics
Contemporary Issues in Recruitment
Work-Based Learning
Indicative Schedule
Each semester will run for 11 weeks. The Apprentice will work 4 days a week at the agency and will attend a 'College Day' (normally a Thursday), either online or in NCI (due to COVID-19, online delivery will be a significant part of the timetable for semester one).
Further information can be found on the
ERF Recruitment Apprenticeship Timetables
page.
Entry Requirements
Minimum entry requirements are
A grade H5 and above in two higher level subjects together with a minimum of O6/H7 in four other subjects. A minimum of grade O6/H7 must be obtained in English. A grade O6/H7 must be obtained in Mathematics. Holders of a QQI level 5 or Level 6 (or equivalent) can apply for entry onto the programme.
Learners for whom English is not a first language must demonstrate proficiency in English with CEF B2 (Common European Framework of Reference for Languages) or recognised equivalent.
Current employees with relevant experience and qualifications (e.g. ERF Programme in Recruitment Practice).
Applications from candidates who are not current employees or do not have the academic requirements outlined above may apply using an application for
Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPL)
.
Aged 18 or over.
For applicants whose first language is not English, please note the
English language entry requirements
.
Before enrolment on the apprenticeship programme, all apprentices must:
Be successful in an industry interview with a participating recruitment industry employer;
SOLAS apprentice approval.
Delivery Method
1 day a week attending classes (in-person and virtually) to include::
6 face-to-face teaching days per academic year
12 virtual classroom days and 2 virtual learning environment days
Virtual classroom & virtual learning environment days may be on the employer premises away from the desk/work duties or at another location at the employer’s discretion.
The apprentice will have the support of their NCI Academic Advisor and their Workplace Mentor.
Laptop Requirements
National College of Ireland has implemented a Bring Your Own Device policy for all courses. Specifically, students are expected to successfully participate in lectures, laboratories and projects using a portable computer (laptop/notebook) with a substantial hardware configuration.
The recommended configuration is as follows:
Processor:
Intel 11th Gen or newer, Core i3 / i5 /i7 or Ultra 3 / 5 /7
Or
AMD 5000 Series or newer, Rzyen 3 / 5 /7
Random Access Memory (RAM):
16GB or greater
Storage:
SSD (Solid State Drive) 256GB or greater
Wireless Card:
802.11 n/ac/ax capability
Recommended Operating Systems:
Windows 11
Later Version of MAC OS should also be fine.
Chromebook’s are not recommended.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure their computer is functioning correctly and that they have full administrator rights. NCI cannot provide support for these personal devices.
Student Laptop Loan Scheme
A
Laptop Loan Scheme
is available for eligible students to assist them in completing their chosen course.
Course Assessment
The course will be assessed with:
Six work-based Modules 100% continuous assessment
12 integrated work-based modules with a minimum of 50% work-based assessment
2 applied exams
Employers & Workplace Mentors
Contact Janice O'Rourke (Employment and Recruitment Federation) for further information on becoming a workplace mentor by emailing
janice@erfireland.com
.
Course Fees
There are no tuition fees paid by the student for this apprenticeship degree. An annual registration/student contribution fee is paid by the employer along with providing paid work placement for the Recruitment Executive.
International Students
International students recruited by employers may be eligible to apply for the BA (Honours) in Recruitment Practice. International students will be subject to work permit regulations.
Student Profile