International
Live in Dublin, Study at NCI and Change your Life!
What You Can Study
Fees and Funding
Confirm or Defer Your Place
Visas & Immigration
Accommodation
International Downloads
Contact International Office
Your Language
International Student Support
Choosing NCI for Your International Studies
Want to enrol in one of NCI's courses? This section contains all you need to know to make your choice and get started at NCI!
How to Apply
Your Country
International Scholarships
Apply Now
Young Future Leaders Programme
Hosted by NCI, this free, online programme is a unique opportunity for international high school students to meet like-minded students from around the world.
Learn More
International Events
Do you want to study at NCI? Meet one of our representatives to learn more about our programmes, scholarship opportunities and living in Dublin, Ireland.
Upcoming Events
International Brochure
International applications are currently open. Learn more about international full-time programmes, scholarship opportunities, careers and more with our new brochure.
Download Now
NCI awarded TrustEd Ireland International Education Mark
NCI has earned the prestigious TrustEd Ireland International Education Mark, accredited by Quality and Qualifications Ireland (QQI), recognising its excellence in international student recruitment and support.
Learn More
Quick Links
How to Apply
Find A Course
Pay Your Fees
Language Requirements
International Scholarships
Guides
Advice & Support
Fees and Funding
International Guides
Confirm or Defer Your Place
Downloads
Accommodation
Contact Us
Apply Now
NCI International on Social Media
Follow our Instagram,  Facebook and YouTube for updates, information and more.
Instagram
Facebook
YouTube
Our support services kick in from the time you make your application, right the way through to graduation. We'll collect you from the airport, bring you on a tour of Dublin city and help you get your bearings.
Sheila Mahon, International Officer – International Department